                            TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter #                                                                                          Page #

    1. Introductory Matters ................................................................................ 3
    2. The First Trumpet ....................................................................................25
    3. The Second Trumpet ...............................................................................37
    4. The Third Trumpet ..................................................................................65
    5. The Fourth Trumpet ................................................................................95
    6. The Fifth Trumpet ................................................................................. 127
              Revelation 12-22 Chart ............................................................ 146
    7. Revelation 11 Interlude: 1260-Years and French Revolution .......... 181
    8. Matthew, Luke and the Times of the Gentiles .............................. 211
    9. The Little Sealed Book ......................................................................... 221
  10. The Mighty Angel from Heaven ........................................................ 237
  11. Measure the Temple of God ............................................................... 267
  12. Daniel 10 and the Little Book ............................................................ 281
              The Flow of Revelation 8:12-15:4 Chart ............................ 378
  13. The Sixth Trumpet ................................................................................ 301
  14. The Seventh Trumpet .......................................................................... 325
  15. The Marriage, the Marriage Supper
       and possessing the Kingdom ............................................................... 329
  16. Examining the Subjects of the Kingdom ........................................ 339
  17. Matters Relating to Literary Structure........................................... 355
  18. Views and Issues in the Study of the Trumpets........................... 363
           The Prophecy of Josiah Litch .............................................................. 365

           The Seven Trumpets in Adventism ..................................................... 373

        Contact Information ............................................................................. 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 2 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


      CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTORY MATTERS

Four Schools of Thought on the Trumpets

There are four general views on the trumpets among Christian expositors:
Preterist:
The trumpets depict events relating to the Roman Empire and the Jewish
nation in the first centuries of the Christian era. The trumpets are thus simple
history and therefore, they are of historical interest but have no relevance for
the church today.
Futurist:
The seven trumpets depict scourges that will afflict humanity after the
rapture of the church. Therefore, the trumpets have no relevance for believers
in the church today because when the seven trumpeters blow their trumpets,
the church will be gone.
Dual Fulfillment:
Among Adventists, there are those who believe the trumpets have a dual
fulfillment, one in the past (throughout the history of the Christian Church)
and the other in the future.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 3 of 379
Historicist:
The introductory vision to the trumpets describes the starting and ending
points of the series. The starting point is the Day of Pentecost when Jesus
began His intercession at the golden altar of incense in the holy place. The series
ends when Jesus throws down the censer, ceases to intercede and takes over
the kingdoms of the world. Strict historicists do not believe that the trumpets
have a dual fulfillment.

Historicist Principles

Of all the passages in the book of Revelation, the seven trumpet series is the
most difficult to understand. For years, I shied away from speaking on these
chapters because I always looked at them through the prism of Uriah Smith who
gave an interpretation that makes little sense. I well remember that every time
that I taught the Seminars Unlimited Revelation Seminar, I always skipped
lesson #23 on the seven trumpets (‘Trumpets Herald Rome’s Collapse’).
Then, while serving as pastor of Fresno Central Church, I decided to do a series
on the book of Revelation in chronological order. This made it imperative to
study the trumpets for myself and apply the same principles of study that I
applied to other passages in the book of Revelation. It was indeed an eye-
opening experience! These study notes are the result of my personal study.
There are several interpretative principles we must remember when we
study the book of Revelation:
First, when the book of Revelation does not interpret its own symbols, we must
allow the entire Bible to explain their meaning.
Second, we must carefully consider the order of events or the literary
structure of the book. The book of Revelation is an intricately woven book
with flashbacks, foretastes and repetition and expansion. We must
remember that God did not reveal the book of Revelation to John in strict
chronological order. The visions of Revelation run in repetitive cycles.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 4 of 379
Example: The three passages that mention the 144,000 (Revelation 7:1-8;
14:1-5; 15:2-4).
Third, the introductory scenes of each of series contain the beginning and
ending points of the entire series.
   Revelation 1:1-7: (Two points of time: Introduction to the seven
    churches and the second coming).
   Revelation 3:21 (two points of time: when Jesus sat on the throne in
    the past and when the redeemed will sit with Jesus on His throne in the
    future).
   Revelation 8:2-5 (Jesus officiates with the censer and when probation is
    over He casts it down).
   Revelation 11:15-19 contains the conclusion to the trumpets, a
    summary of the rest of the book and the introduction to the next
    section, Revelation 12-14
          Revelation 11:15-17: The seventh trumpet (concludes the
           series).
          Revelation 11:18 the summary of the rest of the book:
            “Then I saw that Jesus would not leave the most holy place until every
            case was decided either for salvation or destruction, and that the
            wrath of God could not come until Jesus had finished His work in
            the most holy place, laid off His priestly attire, and clothed Himself
            with the garments of vengeance. Then Jesus will step out from
            between the Father and man, and God will keep silence no longer, but
            pour out His wrath on those who have rejected His truth. I saw that
            the [1] anger of the nations, the [2] wrath of God, and the [3] time
            to judge the dead were separate and distinct, one following the
            other, also that Michael had not stood up, and that the time of
            trouble, such as never was, had not yet commenced. The nations are
            now getting angry, but when our High Priest has finished His work
            in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of vengeance,


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 5 of 379
             and then the seven last plagues will be poured out [the wrath of
             God].” EW, p. 36
             Summary of the five chronological states in Revelation 11:18:
             Revelation 12-14: ‘The nations were angry’
             Revelation 15-19: ‘Your wrath has come’
             Revelation 20:4, 11: ‘the time to judge the dead’
             Revelation 19:11-21; 22:12: ‘the time to reward your servants’
             Revelation 20:14, 15: ‘destroy those who destroy the earth’

           Revelation 11:19: The introduction to chapters 12-14

Serious Questions on Hermeneutical Consistency

Interpreters of the book of Revelation are frequently inconsistent in the way
they interpret the book.
For example, the historicist method teaches that the churches and the seals
begin in apostolic times and end with the setting up of Christ’s kingdom. This
being the case, why do some interpreters begin the trumpets series with the
barbarian invasions and the fall of the Roman Empire in the fourth century?
Some Adventist interpreters believe that there is a dual fulfillment of the
trumpets, one past and the other future. However, is there such a thing as dual
fulfillments of chain prophecies? Do the churches and the seals also have a
dual fulfillment? Do Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 have dual fulfillments?
Another question: Were the barbarian invasions of such historical
importance that John needed four trumpets to describe them?
Those who interpret the trumpets as a depiction of the barbarian invasions and
the growth of Islam and Turkey are many times inconsistent in the manner that
they interpret the symbols. Sometimes they take the language literally and
sometimes symbolically. However, we must apply the same principles to the
trumpets that we do to the rest of the book.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 6 of 379
For those who see the rise and fall of Islam and a role for Turkey in the
trumpets one must ask: Where in other prophetic lines of prophecy do we find
mention of Turkey and the Muslims?
      Daniel 2: Not there
      Daniel 7: Not there
      Daniel 8, 9: Not there
      The Churches: Not there
      The Seals: Not there
      Daniel 11-12: Not there
      Revelation 12: Not there
      Revelation 13: Not there

Introduction to the Trumpets

We begin by asking a very important question. Are we to understand the
trumpets from a futurist or from a historicist perspective?
Seventh-day Adventist theology has traditionally interpreted the churches, the
seals and the trumpets from a historicist perspective. However, in recent
times, there has been a tendency among some Adventist writers to interpret
the trumpets from a futurist perspective. No one has done more to popularize
this new view of the trumpets than Marvin Moore who for years was the editor
of Signs of the Times.
As regards the trumpets, there are two futurist schools of thought within
Adventism today. One school sees the fulfillment of the trumpets in post-
probationary time. The other school sees their fulfillment as future from our
time but occurring mostly before the close of probation. Marvin Moore
belongs to this second group. As we shall see, there are serious problems with
both schools of the futurist scenario.
I believe that the futurist school commits two mistakes in their interpretation
of the trumpets. First, they often literalize the symbolic language and second,
they fail to do a serious study of the intricate literary arrangement of the book


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 7 of 379
of Revelation. As we shall see, the literary structure of Revelation is, so to speak,
the skeleton that holds the entire book together.
Many scholars have concluded that the book of Revelation follows the
sequential order of the Hebrew sanctuary. In the series on the seven churches,
Jesus walks among the candlesticks. In the series on the seals, Jesus moves to
the table of the showbread. In the series on the trumpets, Jesus ministers at
the altar of incense and in Revelation 11:19 He moves into the most holy
place to begin His ministration there.
Then, in Revelation 15:5-8 Jesus closes His sanctuary ministration after which
the plagues fall in Revelation 16-19. Next, Revelation 20 portrays the
scapegoat ceremony and destruction of the wicked. Finally, chapters 21 and
22 describe the new heavens and new earth where Jesus will live with the
redeemed forever.
Extracting the trumpets from their legitimate context and inserting them into
the future destroys the beautiful sanctuary symmetry of the book (for more
on the literary structure of Revelation see, C. Mervyn Maxwell, God Cares,
volume 1, p. 33, 37, 48-49.

The Normative Seventh-day Adventist Position (DARCOM)

After Desmond Ford came up with his novel ideas on Bible prophecy, the
General Conference established the Daniel and Revelation Study Committee
(DARCOM) to look into his arguments. The result was the publication of seven
books on various issues relating to the sanctuary and Bible prophecy.
Regarding the seven trumpets, DARCOM gave the following explanation:
“Today Seventh-day Adventists virtually stand alone as exponents of the
historicist method, since non-Catholic groups in general have abandoned this
approach in favor of one of the two methods mentioned above [preterism and
futurism] . . . The Daniel and Revelation Committee wishes to reaffirm to the
world church the validity of the historicist approach to these two apocalyptic
books. The committee sees it as the only sound method to use. Our pioneers did
not follow ‘cunningly devised fables’ when they searched and preached the truths

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 8 of 379
of these prophecies. They have passed on to us a rich heritage.” Frank Holbrook,
editor, Symposium on Revelation, volume 1, p. 176. Emphasis supplied
While not providing a definitive interpretation of the trumpets, DARCOM did
establish some non-negotiable parameters:
    “The literary structure divides the book of Revelation into two major
     sections: (1) a historical section (Rev. 1-14) that emphasizes the
     experience of the church and related events during the Christian era, and
     (2) an eschatological (end time) section (Rev. 15-22) that focuses
     particularly on end-time events and the end of the world.”
    The series of the seals and of the trumpets occur in the historical section of
     Revelation. Consequently, we should seek for their fulfillment in
     historical time, the Christian era.
    The prophecies of the seals and of the trumpets have only one prophetic
     fulfillment.” Frank B. Holbrook, editor, Symposium on Revelation, volume
     1, p. 177

The Dangers of Futurism (Ellen G. White)

Ellen White has warned about the dangers of extracting prophecies from their
legitimate historical context and applying them to the future:
“There have been one and another who in studying their Bibles thought they
discovered great light, and new theories, but these have not been correct. The
Scripture is all-true, however by misapplying the Scripture men arrive at wrong
conclusions. We are engaged in a mighty conflict, and it will become more close
and determined, as we near the final struggle. We have a sleepless adversary, and
he is constantly at work upon human minds that have not had a personal
experience in the teachings of the people of God for the past fifty years. Some will
take the truth applicable to their time, and place it in the future. Events in the
train of prophecy that had their fulfillment away in the past are made future,
and thus by these theories the faith of some is undermined.” 2SM p. 102



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 9 of 379
Ellen White wrote the following words to John Bell, a schoolteacher who had
embraced a futurist understanding of prophecies that had already found their
fulfillment in the past:
“From the light that the Lord has been pleased to give me, you are in danger of
doing the same work, presenting before others truths which have had their place
and done their specific work for the time, in the history of the faith of the people
of God. You recognize these facts in Bible history as true, but apply them to the
future. They have their force still in their proper place, in the chain of events
that have made us as a people what we are today, and as such, they are to be
presented to those who are in the darkness of error.” 2SM p. 102, 103

Ellen White and the Time Frame of the Trumpets

There are several indications in the writings of Ellen White that she understood
the trumpets within a historicist framework.
‘Time no longer’ in the sixth trumpet:
Ellen White placed Revelation 10 (a parenthesis within the sixth trumpet) in
the context of events that occurred in 1844:
“The book that was sealed was not the book of Revelation, but that portion of the
prophecy of Daniel which related to the last days. The Scripture says, "But thou, O
Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many
shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased" (Daniel 12:4). When the
book was opened, the proclamation was made, ‘Time shall be no longer.’ (See
Revelation 10:6.) The book of Daniel is now unsealed, and the revelation made
by Christ to John is to come to all the inhabitants of the earth. By the increase of
knowledge a people is to be prepared to stand in the latter days.” 2SM p. 105
“The message of Revelation 14, proclaiming that the hour of God's judgment is
come, is given in the time of the end; and the angel of Revelation 10 is represented
as having one foot on the sea and one foot on the land, showing that the message
will be carried to distant lands, the ocean will be crossed, and the islands of the
sea will hear the proclamation of the last message of warning to our world.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 10 of 379
"And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his
hand to heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created
heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein
are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no
longer" (Rev. 10:5, 6). This message announces the end of the prophetic periods.
The disappointment of those who expected to see our Lord in 1844 was indeed
bitter [Revelation 10] to those who had so ardently looked for His appearing. It
was in the Lord's order that this disappointment should come, and that hearts
should be revealed. 2SM p. 107, 108
“The special light given to John which was expressed in the seven thunders was
a delineation of events which would transpire under the first and second angels'
messages. It was not best for the people to know these things, for their faith must
necessarily be tested. In the order of God, most wonderful and advanced truths
would be proclaimed. The first and second angels' messages were to be
proclaimed, but no further light was to be revealed before these messages had
done their specific work. This is represented by the angel standing with one foot
on the sea, proclaiming with a most solemn oath that time should be no longer.
This time, which the angel declares with a solemn oath, is not the end of this
world's history, neither of probationary time, but of prophetic time, which
should precede the advent of our Lord. That is, the people will not have another
message upon definite time. After this period of time, reaching from 1842 to
1844, there can be no definite tracing of the prophetic time. The longest
reckoning reaches to the autumn of 1844. 7BC p. 971
The Bittersweet Experience of Revelation 10:
Ellen White understood that the bittersweet experience of Revelation 10 took
place in 1844.
“The waiting people of God approached the hour when they fondly hoped their
joys would be complete in the coming of the Savior. However, the time again
passed unmarked by the advent of Jesus. Mortality still clung to us; the effects of
the curse were all around us. It was hard to take up the vexing cares of life that
we thought had been laid down forever. A bitter disappointment fell upon the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 11 of 379
little flock whose faith had been so strong and whose hope had been so high. But
we were surprised that we felt so free in the Lord, and were so strongly sustained
by his strength and grace.” LS p. 189
The 1260 Days and 42 Months of Revelation 11:
Ellen White understood that the papacy fulfilled the 1260 days and 42 months
of Revelation 11 (an interlude in the sixth trumpet) between the years 538 and
1798 AD. She also understood that Revelation 11 describes the French
Revolution.
Marvin Moore and others believe that we must reapply the symbolic 42
months and the 1260 days and reinterpret them as literal future time. Ellen
White, however, explicitly wrote that the 42 months cover the same period as
the 1260 days and that both periods apply to the period of papal supremacy
during the dark ages. She also did a verse-by-verse analysis of Revelation 11
and interpreted it from a historicist perspective. (“The Bible and the French
Revolution” GC p. 265-88)
“The periods here mentioned—“forty and two months," and "a thousand two
hundred and threescore days"—are the same, alike representing the time in
which the church of Christ was to suffer oppression from Rome. The 1260 years
of papal supremacy began in A.D. 538, and would therefore terminate in
1798. At that time, a French army entered Rome and made the pope a prisoner,
and he died in exile. Though a new pope was soon afterward elected, the papal
hierarchy has never since been able to wield the power which it before possessed.”
GC p. 266
"Power was given unto him to continue forty and two months." And, says the
prophet, "I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death." Again: "He that
leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must
be killed with the sword." The forty and two months are the same as the ‘time
and times and the dividing of time,’ three years and a half, or 1260 days, of
Daniel 7—the time during which the papal power was to oppress God's people.
This period, as stated in preceding chapters, began with the supremacy of the
papacy, A.D. 538, and terminated in 1798. At that time the pope was made

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 12 of 379
captive by the French army, the papal power received its deadly wound, and the
prediction was fulfilled, "He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity." GC
p. 439
Measuring the Temple:
Ellen White applied the measuring of the temple (an interlude in the sixth
trumpet) to 1844:
“The grand judgment is taking place, and has been going on for some time.
Now the Lord says, Measure the temple and the worshipers thereof.
Remember when you are walking the streets about your business, God is
measuring you; when you are attending your household duties, when you engage
in conversation, God is measuring you. Remember that your words and actions
are being daguerreotyped [photographed] in the books of heaven, as the
artist on the polished plate reproduces the face. . . Here is the work going on,
measuring the temple and its worshipers to see who will stand in the last day.
Those who stand fast shall have an abundant entrance into the kingdom of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. When we are doing our work remember there is One
that is watching the spirit in which we are doing it. Shall we not bring the Savior
into our everyday lives, into our secular work and domestic duties? Then in the
name of God, we want to leave behind everything that is not necessary, all
gossiping or unprofitable visiting, and present ourselves as servants of the living
God (MS 4, 1888). 7BC p. 972

The Relationship between the Seals and the Trumpets

    Seals                                       Trumpets

The first four horses              The first four trumpets
The 5th and 6th seals              The 5th and 6th trumpets (1st and 2nd trumpet woes)
Interlude (Rev. 7 sealing)         Interlude (Rev 10, 11: Little book, French Revolution)
The 7th seal (silence in heaven)   The 7th trumpet (third woe: taking over the kingdom)




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 13 of 379
Explanation: In the historical half of Revelation (Revelation 1-11), the sixth
item in each series deals with the beginning of the investigative judgment in
1844.
    The sixth church (the door to the most holy place opens before
     Philadelphia)
    The sixth seal (signs in the heavens announce the beginning of the
     judgment)
    The sixth trumpet (the little book episode and the measuring of the
     temple).
There is a very important link between Revelation 9:14, 16 (the sixth
trumpet) and Revelation 7:1-3 (parenthesis in the sixth seal). In both, there is
a binding and loosing relating to four angels and there is a numbering of
people. Revelation 7:1-3 describes the numbering of God’s people while in
Revelation 9:14, 16 describes the numbering of their evil counterparts.
Revelation 9:16 and 7:4 are the only two places in Revelation where the
expression ‘I heard their number’ appears. If the door of probation is open
during the period of the sixth trumpet and closes when the seventh is about to
sound, then the sixth trumpet is the exact historical counterpart of Revelation
7:1-8.

The Relationship between the Trumpets and the Plagues

The trumpets and the plagues afflict the same things, in the same order:
      First trumpet and plague:   Afflict the earth
      Second trumpet and plague: Afflict the sea
      Third trumpet and plague:   Afflict rivers and fountains of waters
      Fourth trumpet and plague: Afflict heavenly bodies
      Fifth trumpet and plague:   Heavenly bodies darkened
      Sixth trumpet and plague:   Mention of the Euphrates
      Seventh trumpet and plague: Possessing the Kingdom



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 14 of 379
The evidence seems to indicate that the trumpets represent preliminary and
partial judgments that fell upon the oppressors of God’s people beginning
with the destruction of Jerusalem and ending with the setting up of Christ’s
everlasting kingdom. The fact that the trumpets only fall on thirds and not
on the totality indicates that the trumpet judgments are preliminary and
partial. The trumpets series indicates that repentance during the blowing of
the trumpets is possible.
The plagues, on the other hand, describe final and total judgments of God
upon end time Babylon after the close of probation. We can see the irrevocable
nature of the plagues by the use of the expression ‘in them the wrath of God is
complete’. Each plague is God’s judgment upon some particular sin that Babylon
has committed. The plagues are retributive in character and not remedial.
Repentance is not possible once the plagues begin to fall.
A careful study of the trumpets and the plagues reveals that the trumpet
judgments foreshadow the plague judgments. That is to say, the trumpets are
the type and the plagues are the antitype. This is the reason for the following
statement by Ellen White:
“The battle of Armageddon will be fought and that day must find none of us
sleeping. Wide-awake we must be, as wise virgins having oil in our vessels with
our lamps. The power of the Holy Ghost must be upon us and the Captain of the
Lord's host will stand at the head of the angels of heaven to direct the battle.
Solemn events before us are yet to transpire. Trumpet after trumpet is to be
sounded; vial after vial poured out one after another upon the inhabitants of
the earth.” 3SM p. 426

The Meaning of Trumpets

Trumpets are used in many contexts in the Old and New Testaments—
worship, sanctuary and judgment. In the case of Revelation’s seven trumpets
it is clear that the trumpets bear a relationship with the idea of judgment. The
purpose of the feast of trumpets was to announce the upcoming Day of
Atonement (Leviticus 23:23, 24). The trumpets that the priests blew as they


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 15 of 379
surrounded Jericho announced God’s upcoming judgment against the city
(Joshua 6). Our study will reveal that the blowing of each of the seven trumpets
brings a judgment against those who have oppressed God’s people. Here is the
key text:
Numbers 10:8-9
“The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and these shall be to you
as an ordinance forever throughout your generations. 9 "When you go to war in
your land against the enemy who oppresses you, then you shall sound an alarm
with the trumpets, and you will be remembered before the Lord your God, and
you will be saved from your enemies.”
These verses indicate that the priests blew the trumpets so that God would
remember His covenant and save Israel from their enemies. The trumpets
answer the pleas of God’s people utter in the seals. When the wicked oppress
God’s people, their pleas ascend to God and He remembers His covenant and
sends judgments upon their oppressors (for example, Exodus 2:23-25). The
trumpets are God’s response to the powers that have oppressed and
persecuted His people; God hears their pleas and answers them.
We can better understand the pleas of God’s people in the context of the
imprecatory Psalms. In these Psalms, God’s people cry out for God to be
faithful to His covenant and to deliver them from their enemies. In parallel
fashion, the seven last plagues will have the same moral reason. God will
punish the wicked for oppressing His people. Each of the plagues will be a
punishment of God upon Babylon for some particular sin that Babylon has
committed against God and His people.
Frequently God’s voice is depicted as the sound of the trumpet (Hebrews
12:19). 1Corinthians 15:51, 52, 1Thessalonians 4:16, 17 tell us that the dead
will be raised when the trumpet sounds. However, John 5:28, 29 explains that
it is the voice of Jesus that resurrects the dead. This is why Revelation 1:10
describes the voice of Jesus as the sound of the trumpet.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 16 of 379
Revelation 8:2-5 seems to refer to two distinct altars. The first is the altar of
sacrifice where the wicked have poured out the blood of God’s people. That is,
the pleas of God’s people at the altar of sacrifice (see Revelation 6:9-11) ascend
to heaven where Jesus answers from the altar of incense. It is in this context
that we must understand the imprecatory Psalms (for example, Psalm 34:4-9).
Four illustrations will help us understand the relationship between the
oppression of God’s people by the wicked and God’s response:
    Whoever touches the head also touches the body.
    Whoever touches the wife also touches the husband.
    Whoever touches the sheep also touches the shepherd.
    Whoever touches the vassal also touches the sovereign.
The exodus pattern in Scripture illustrates the relationship between God and
His covenant people. The Egyptians oppressed Israel and they cried out for
God to be faithful to His covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob (Exodus 2:23-
25). In answer, God remembered His covenant (Exodus 2:24) with His people
and answered their pleas by pouring out plagues upon the Egyptians. However,
the Egyptians did not repent.
Exodus 2:23-25
“Now it happened in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. Then the
children of Israel groaned because of the bondage, and they cried out; and their
cry came up to God because of the bondage. 24 So God heard their groaning, and
God remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. 25 And
God looked upon the children of Israel, and God acknowledged them.”

There is a similar pattern in the seven trumpets. God’s people cry out to God
for justice and vengeance from the altar of sacrifice on the earth (see Revelation
6:9-11), God heeds their prayer at the altar of incense in heaven and pours out
the preliminary judgments against those who are oppressing His people.
While God pours out these trumpet judgments, there is mercy. However, when
probation closes God will send greater scourges (the seven last plagues) and
there will be no opportunity for repentance.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 17 of 379
Here is a summary of the seven trumpets:

Revelation 8:3, 4                           Seven Trumpets
Altar in heaven:
Offering incense
                                                Intercession                                              Rev. 8:5
                                                                                                           Censer
                                                                                                            Cast
                                                                                                            Down
                       1         2          3        4           5                6                7
Worshipers pray      Fall of  Fall of   Church      papal      French      Gathering of the      close of probation
 On the earth,      Jerusalem Rome       defiled   dominion    Revolution righteous and wicked everlasting kingdom
Revelation 6:9-11     34-70 300-476     313-538    538-1798    1789-1798 1844-close of probation      ?
                       8:7     8:8      8:9-11      8:12       9:1-11     9:13-20: Wicked            10:7
                                                   11:2-6      11:7-12 10:1-11:1, 13: Righteous 11:19-17


                                                                 Three woes (8:13, 9:12; 11:14; 11:15)

Timeline of the Trumpets

The first six trumpets describe events during probationary time and probation
closes when the seventh trumpet is about to sound (10:7). When the seventh
trumpet blows, Jesus will take over the kingdoms of the world (11:15). This
means that the blowing of the previous six trumpets took place during
probationary time.
Earlier in Revelation God described Himself as the one who was, and is and is
to come (Revelation 1:8), but in Revelation 11:17 (when the seventh trumpet
sounds) He is spoken of as the one who is and who was and has taken His great
power and begun to reign.
Clearly, there is a time interval between when the mystery of God is finished
and the seventh trumpet is about to sound, and the moment when Jesus takes
over the kingdoms of the world at the sound of the seventh trumpet. The
finishing of the mystery of God has to do with the end of the gospel
proclamation (Eph. 3:4; 6:19; Col. 4:3; Rom. 16:25, 26).
The mention of the golden altar in the sixth trumpet indicates that Christ’s
intercession is still ongoing during the sixth trumpet (9:13). Furthermore, the
interlude between the sixth and seventh trumpets (Revelation 10 and 11)


     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                    by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 18 of 379
indicates that the proclamation of the gospel is still transpiring so probation
must still be open. If the church must prophesy again (Revelation 10:11) then
probation must still be open. During the period of the interlude, people can still
repent and give glory to God (11:13, cf. 16:9). 11:13: The remnant feared God
and gave glory to him. This links with the message of the first angel in
Revelation 14:6, 7

The Importance of the Introductory Visions

The Churches
    Revelation 1:1-6: The introduction to the seven churches.
    Revelation 1:7: The ending point toward which the series moves.
The Seals
    Revelation 3:21 describes the beginning and ending point of the seals.
    Revelation 4 portrays the Father on the Throne and in Revelation 5 Jesus
     joins His Father on the throne.
    God’s people overcome during the period of the seven seals, and then
     they will join Jesus on His throne.
The Trumpets
    Revelation 8:2-5 provides the beginning and ending points of the
     trumpet series. The starting point is the when the intercessory work of
     Jesus begins in the holy place on the Day of Pentecost.
    The ending point is when Jesus casts the censer to the ground,
     probation closes, and the temple fills with smoke (Revelation 15:5-8).
     After this, God pours out the plagues culminating with the earthquake,
     lightning and thunder (Revelation 16:17-21). The phenomena that occur
     in the seventh plague are very similar to the phenomena in the
     introduction to the trumpets.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 19 of 379
We should not consider Revelation 11:18, 19 as part of the trumpets series but
rather as the beginning of new material:
    Revelation 11:18: Summarizes and introduces the five major parts of
     Revelation 12-22.
    Revelation 11:19: Introduces the vision of Revelation 12-14.

Inauguration and Consummation: Two views of the censer

Revelation 8:2
The introductory verse to the trumpets:
“And I saw the seven angels who stand before God and to them were given seven
trumpets.”
Revelation 8:3, 4
First view of the altar: The censer intercedes:
“Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He was
given much incense that he should offer it with the prayers of all the saints
upon the golden altar that was before the throne. 4 And the smoke of the incense,
with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand.”
Revelation 8:5
Second view of the altar: Intercession ceases:
“Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it to
the earth. And there were noises, thunderings, lightnings, and an
earthquake.”
The Old Testament Background:
The book of Ezekiel contains the Old Testament background to the
introductory vision of the trumpets.
The man clothed in linen takes coals from between the cherubim and scatters
them over the city as a sign of divine judgment. This is parallel to the angel of


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 20 of 379
fire who pours out God’s wrath into the winepress of His fury (Revelation
14:18).
Ezekiel 10:1, 2
“And I looked, and there in the firmament that was above the head of the
cherubim, there appeared something like a sapphire stone, having the
appearance of the likeness of a throne. 2 Then He spoke to the man clothed with
linen, and said, "Go in among the wheels, under the cherub, fill your hands with
coals of fire from among the cherubim, and scatter them over the city." And he
went in as I watched.”
Revelation 14:17-19
“Then another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a
sharp sickle. 18 And another angel came out from the altar, who had power over
fire, and he cried with a loud cry to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, "Thrust
in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes
are fully ripe." 19 So the angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine
of the earth, and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. “
This introductory scene in Revelation 8 provides two points of reference: What
Jesus is doing when the trumpets begin to sound and when they end. That is
to say, the ministration of the censer and its throwing down do not take place
in immediate succession. There is a long time interval in between.
Some have seen the casting down of the censer as a symbol of the outpouring
of the Holy Spirit on the Day of Pentecost (the tongues of fire). This view,
however, is untenable because on the Day of Pentecost Jesus began to offer the
prayers of the saints mingled with the merits of His perfect life, He did not cast
down the censer.
When the angel throws down the censer there is thunder, lightning, voices and
an earthquake (Revelation 8:5). Revelation 15:5-8 describes the moment
when the seventh trumpet is about to sound and the mystery of God finished
(Revelation 10:7). At this moment, the angel throws down the censer because
intercession is finished and probation has ended. Revelation 16:17-21

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 21 of 379
describes the moment when the seventh trumpet ceases to sound and Jesus
takes over the kingdoms of the earth (Revelation 11:15-17).
Ellen White describes the censer when the trumpets begin:
“In the holiest I saw an ark; on the top and sides of it was purest gold. On each end
of the ark was a lovely cherub, with its wings spread out over it. Their faces were
turned toward each other, and they looked downward. Between the angels was
a golden censer. Above the ark, where the angels stood, was an exceeding bright
glory that appeared like a throne where God dwelt. Jesus stood by the ark, and as
the saints' prayers came up to Him, the incense in the censer would smoke, and
He would offer up their prayers with the smoke of the incense to His Father.”
CET p. 91
“The holy places of the sanctuary in heaven are represented by the two
apartments in the sanctuary on earth. As in vision the apostle John was granted a
view of the temple of God in heaven, he beheld there ‘seven lamps of fire burning
before the throne.’ Rev. 4:5. He saw an angel ‘having a golden censer; and there
was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all
saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.’ Rev. 8:3. Here the
prophet was permitted to behold the first apartment of the sanctuary in heaven;
and he saw there the ‘seven lamps of fire’ and the ‘golden altar,’ represented by
the golden candlestick and the altar of incense in the sanctuary on earth.” FLB
p. 202
“Christ proclaims Himself our Intercessor. He would have us know that He has
graciously engaged to be our Substitute. He places His merit in the golden censer
to offer up with the prayers of His saints, so that the prayers of His dear children
may be mingled with the fragrant merit of Christ as they ascend to the Father in
the cloud of incense.” HP p. 79

The Incense and the Censer

The high priest offered only holy fire on the golden altar of incense. The high
priest alone burned incense on the Golden Altar (Exodus 30:7, 8). The golden
altar of incense was nearest to the Ark of the Covenant that represents the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 22 of 379
throne of God. In fact, its orientation was toward the mercy seat in the most
holy place (Exodus 30:6). Notably, the book of Hebrews places censer and the
incense in the most holy place (Hebrews 9:3, 4).
The fire is a symbol of the Holy Spirit and the incense represents the prayers
of the saints mingled the merits of Jesus. The angels embroidered on the veil
between the holy and most holy place represents the fact that the angels bear
our prayers to God and bring God’s answers back to us. Revelation 5:8 refers
to this angelic task. Furthermore, the ladder that Jacob saw in His dream
indicates that the angels have a role in presenting the prayers of the saints as
representatives of Jesus. Ellen White wrote:
“Angels offer the smoke of the fragrant incense for the praying saints.” Counsels
to Teachers, p. 110
Luke 1:8-10 contains the symbol along with its meaning. The incense made the
odor sweet.
“So it was that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his
division, 9 according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn incense
when he went into the temple of the Lord. 10 And the whole multitude of the people
was praying outside at the hour of incense.”
Psalm 141:2
“Let my prayer be set before You as incense, the lifting up of my hands as the
evening sacrifice.”
“The prayer and praise and confession of God's people ascend as sacrifices to the
heavenly sanctuary. However, they ascend not in spotless purity. Passing through
the corrupt channels of humanity, they are so defiled that unless purified by the
righteousness of the great High Priest, they are not acceptable by God. Christ
gathers into the censer the [1] prayers, the praise, and the sacrifices of his people,
and [2] with these, he puts the merits of his spotless righteousness. Then,
perfumed with the incense of Christ's propitiation, our prayers, wholly and
entirely acceptable, rise before God, and gracious answers are returned.” YI April
16, 1903

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 23 of 379
Christ has pledged Himself to be our substitute and surety, and He neglects no one.
There is an inexhaustible fund of perfect obedience accruing from His
obedience. In heaven, His merits, His self-denial and self-sacrifice, are treasured
as incense to be offered up with the prayers of His people. As the sinner's
sincere, humble prayers ascend to the throne of God, Christ mingles with them
the merits of His own life of perfect obedience. Our prayers are made fragrant
by this incense. Christ has pledged Himself to intercede in our behalf, and the
Father always hears the Son.” SD, p. 22
“Prayer is the opening of the heart to God as to a friend. Not that it is necessary in
order to make known to God what we are, but in order to enable us to receive Him.
Prayer does not bring God down to us, but brings us up to Him.” SC p. 93
The high priest burned incense continually, morning and evening, upon the
altar:
“The fire upon this altar was kindled by God Himself and was sacredly cherished.
Day and night the holy incense diffused its fragrance throughout the sacred
apartments, and without, far around the tabernacle.” PP p. 348
As Jesus lives ever to intercede for us, (Hebrews 7:25) so, we are to pray
without ceasing (1Thessalonians 5:17).
Ellen White describes the censer when the trumpets end:
“I saw angels hurrying to and fro in heaven. An angel with a writer's inkhorn by
his side returned from the earth and reported to Jesus that his work was done, and
the saints were numbered and sealed. Then I saw Jesus, who had been
ministering before the ark containing the Ten Commandments, throw down the
censer. He raised His hands, and with a loud voice said, ‘It is done.’ Then, all the
angelic host laid off their crowns as Jesus made the solemn declaration, "He that
is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he
that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.”
[Revelation 22:11] EW, pp. 279, 280 [in this quotation Ellen White alludes
to Ezekiel 9:2, 3; Revelation 16:17; 8:5; 22:11. All these verses are thus
describing what will happen when probation closes].

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 24 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


            CHAPTER 2: THE FIRST TRUMPET

Revelation 8:7
“The first angel sounded: And hail and fire followed, mingled with blood, and they
were thrown to the earth. And a third of the trees were burned up, and all green
grass was burned up.”
The constant use of the passive voice in the trumpets indicates that God is in
control because He is allowing (and in some cases, commanding) these things
to take place.
It is no coincidence that Ellen White begins the book The Great Controversy
with a chapter on the destruction of Jerusalem because the sounding of the
first trumpet refers to this event.
The Bible tells us that judgment must begin at the house of God (1Peter 4:17)
so the judgment must begin with the Jewish nation. In the first destruction of
Jerusalem, the man clothed in linen commanded the destroying messengers to
begin their work at God’s sanctuary (Ezekiel 9:6) Fire then destroyed
Jerusalem (Jeremiah 17:27; 2 Chronicles 34:25) and Nebuchadnezzar mingled
the blood of the apostate people with the fire.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 25 of 379
The book of Ezekiel portrays the divine punishment against Jerusalem as a
throwing down of the censer and the consequent burning of the city with fire
(Ezekiel 10:2, 6, 7, 22, 2 Chron. 36:14-23). The second destruction of Jerusalem
parallels the first. I recommend that the student carefully read the first chapter
of The Great Controversy.
The churches and the seals begin in apostolic times and therefore the
historicist method requires that the blowing of the trumpets begin also in
apostolic times. Furthermore, the first trumpet must refer to a judgment that
falls upon those who first oppressed God’s people. What judgment fell upon
oppressors of God’s people in apostolic times? There is only one possibility—
the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple.

Judgment on the Oppressors

According to Jesus, the destruction of Jerusalem was due directly to the
persecution against Jesus and His faithful followers:
Matthew 27:24, 25
“When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was
rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, "I am
innocent of the blood of this just Person. You see to it." 25 And all the people
answered and said, "His blood be on us and on our children."
Luke 19:41-44
“Now as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it, 42 saying, "If you had
known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace!
But now they are hidden from your eyes. 43 For days will come upon you when
your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and close
you in on every side, 44 and level you, and your children within you, to the ground;
and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know
the time of your visitation."
After Jesus ascended to heaven, the Jewish nation persecuted and shed the
blood of the followers of Jesus and became guilty of their blood as well:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 26 of 379
Matthew 23:34-39
“Therefore, indeed, I send you prophets, wise men, and scribes: some of them you
will [future] kill and crucify, and some of them you will [future] scourge in your
synagogues and persecute from city to city, 35 that on you may come all the
righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood
of Zechariah, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the
altar. 36 Assuredly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.”
Ellen White wrote:
“The long-suffering of God toward Jerusalem only confirmed the Jews in their
stubborn impenitence. In their hatred and cruelty toward the disciples of
Jesus, they rejected the last offer of mercy. Then God withdrew His protection
from them and removed His restraining power from Satan and his angels, and the
nation was left to the control of the leader she had chosen.” GC p. 28
The book of Acts tells us that the Jews repeatedly persecuted the Christians
after the ascension of Christ. Stephen, Peter, John, James and Paul all suffered
at the hands of the Jewish leaders (Acts 9:22-25; 12:1-3, 11; 13:45, 50; 14:1-6,
19; 16:20-23; 17:5,13; 18:4-6, 12; 21:10, 11, 27, 28; 22:30; 23:12, 13; 24:5, 27;
25:1-3, 7, 15, 24; 26:2, 7, 21).

The Symbol of Thirds

A third of the trees means that the trumpets were partial and preliminary
judgments that point forward to greater judgments in the future. The
trumpet judgments fell on limited geographical areas and they foreshadow the
plagues that will fall globally. Ellen White repeatedly stated that the destruction
of Jerusalem foreshadows the final destruction of the world.
Zechariah 13:8, King James Version:
“And it shall come to pass, that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts therein
shall be cut off and die; but the third shall be left therein.”
Zechariah 13:8, Young’s Literal Translation:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 27 of 379
“And it hath come to pass, in all the land, an affirmation of Jehovah, two parts in
it are cut off — they expire, and the third is left in it.”
The Bible tells us that God cast Satan and a third of the angels out of heaven
(Revelation 12:4) but according to Ellen White, the word ‘third’ actually means
nearly one half. Thus a third does not mean 33.3%, not one more or one less,
but rather a fraction or part of the angels:
“(Satan) had proved himself unworthy of a place in heaven. Then Satan exultingly
pointed to his sympathizers, comprising nearly one-half of all the angels, and
exclaimed, "These are with me! Will you expel these also, and make such a void in
heaven?" He then declared that he was prepared to resist the authority of Christ
and to defend his place in heaven by force of might, strength against strength. SR
p. 18
A third of the trees means that this was a partial judgment that points forward
to a greater and complete judgment in the future. Notably, in the seven last
plagues God pours out the fullness of His wrath:
Revelation 15:1
“Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous: seven angels having
the seven last plagues, for in them the wrath of God is complete.”
Ellen White wrote that the destruction of Jerusalem (the first trumpet) was the
first draft of the cup that the wicked will have to drink fully during the
plagues:
“In the temporal retribution about to fall upon her children, He saw but the first
draft from that cup of wrath which at the final judgment she must drain to its
dregs.” GC p. 21
“Christ saw in Jerusalem a symbol of the world hardened in unbelief and
rebellion, and hastening on to meet the retributive judgments of God.” GC p. 22
“Jesus, looking down to the last generation, saw the world involved in a
deception similar to that which caused the destruction of Jerusalem. The great
sin of the Jews was their rejection of Christ; the great sin of the Christian world

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 28 of 379
would be their rejection of the law of God, the foundation of His government in
heaven and earth.” GC p. 22
“The prophecy which He uttered was twofold in its meaning; while
foreshadowing the destruction of Jerusalem, it prefigured also the terrors of the
last great day.” GC p. 25
“The Savior's prophecy concerning the visitation of judgments upon Jerusalem is
to have another fulfillment, of which that terrible desolation was but a faint
shadow. In the fate of the chosen city, we may behold the doom of a world that
has rejected God's mercy and trampled upon His law. Dark are the records of
human misery that earth has witnessed during its long centuries of crime. The
heart sickens, and the mind grows faint in contemplation. Terrible have been the
results of rejecting the authority of Heaven. However, a scene yet darker is
presented in the revelations of the future. The records of the past—the long
procession of tumults, conflicts, and revolutions, the ‘battle of the warrior . . . with
confused noise, and garments rolled in blood" (Isaiah 9:5)—what are these, in
contrast with the terrors of that day when the restraining Spirit of God shall be
wholly withdrawn from the wicked, no longer to hold in check the outburst of
human passion and satanic wrath! The world will then behold, as never before,
the results of Satan's rule. GC p. 36, 37

Fire

Fire falling from heaven signifies a judgment from God against apostate
Jerusalem (see Revelation 16:21; 20:10, 14, 15).
Exodus 9:22-26: Hail fell because Egypt oppressed God’s people:
‘Then the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there
may be hail in all the land of Egypt--on man, on beast, and on every herb of the
field, throughout the land of Egypt." 23 And Moses stretched out his rod toward
heaven; and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and fire darted to the ground. And
the LORD rained hail on the land of Egypt. 24 So there was hail, and fire mingled
with the hail, so very heavy that there was none like it in all the land of Egypt
since it became a nation. 25 And the hail struck throughout the whole land of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 29 of 379
Egypt, all that was in the field, both man and beast; and the hail struck every herb
of the field and broke every tree of the field. 26 Only in the land of Goshen, where
the children of Israel were, there was no hail.”

Psalm 18:12, 13: Description of God’s judgment at the second coming:
“From the brightness before Him, His thick clouds passed with hailstones and
coals of fire. 13 The Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered His
voice, Hailstones and coals of fire.”
Psalm 105:32, 33: The hail and fire afflicted the trees and vines:
“He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land. 33 He struck their vines
also, and their fig trees, and splintered the trees of their territory.”
Repeatedly, the later prophets of the Old Testament applied the hail and fire to
God’s judgments on apostate Israel because she had forsaken the covenant
(Jeremiah 11:16, 17; 21:12-14; Ezekiel 15:6, 7; 20:47, 48; Ezekiel 22:31, 32;
Psalm 80:8-11, 15, 16).
Matthew 22:7 tells us that because the Jewish nation rejected the invitation to
Christ’s wedding, the Father sent the Roman armies to burn the city of
Jerusalem:
“But when the king heard about it, he was furious and he sent out his armies,
destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.”
It is of interest that just before the destruction of Jerusalem signs and wonders
appeared in the heavens. One of the signs was the appearance of chariots of
fire and men of war gathering for battle:
“Signs and wonders appeared, foreboding disaster and doom. In the midst of the
night an unnatural light shone over the temple and the altar. Upon the clouds at
sunset were pictured chariots and men of war gathering for battle.” GC p. 29
The Bible describes God’s chariots as ‘chariots of fire’ (2Kings 17:6; Psalm
68:17; Ezekiel 1:4, 5; EW 35).
Ellen White described the fiery inferno that destroyed Jerusalem in the year 70:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 30 of 379
“The whole summit of the hill which commanded the city, blazed like a volcano.
One after another the buildings fell in, with a tremendous crash, and were
swallowed up in the fiery abyss. The roofs of cedar were like sheets of flame; the
gilded pinnacles shone like spikes of red light; the gate towers sent up tall columns
of flame and smoke.” GC p. 34

Blood Symbolism

As we have previously seen, the Jews in Pilate’s judgment hall clamored for
Christ’s crucifixion and cried out, “His blood be upon us and our children.” Jesus
also predicted that God would require from that generation all the righteous
blood, shed from the time of Abel.
According to Revelation 16, God will pour out the third plague upon the
fountains of fresh water because the wicked shed the blood of His people.
Therefore, God will give them blood to drink.
Regarding the shedding of blood in the destruction of Jerusalem Ellen White
wrote:
“The leaders of the opposing factions at times united to plunder and torture their
wretched victims, and again they fell upon each other's forces and slaughtered
without mercy. Even the sanctity of the temple could not restrain their horrible
ferocity. The worshipers were stricken down before the altar, and the sanctuary
was polluted with the bodies of the slain.” GC p. 29
“The Roman leaders endeavored to strike terror to the Jews and thus cause them
to surrender. Those prisoners, who resisted when taken, were scourged, tortured,
and crucified before the wall of the city. Hundreds were daily put to death in this
manner, and the dreadful work continued until, along the Valley of Jehoshaphat
and at Calvary, crosses were erected in so great numbers that there was scarcely
room to move among them. So terribly was visited that awful imprecation uttered
before the judgment seat of Pilate: "His blood be on us, and on our children."
Matthew 27:25.” GC p. 32



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 31 of 379
“Like one entranced, he [Titus] looked from the crest of Olivet upon the
magnificent temple and gave command that not one stone of it be touched. Before
attempting to gain possession of this stronghold, he made an earnest appeal to
the Jewish leaders not to force him to defile the sacred place with blood.” GC p. 32,
33
“In the struggle [of the Jews against Titus], a firebrand was flung by a soldier
through an opening in the porch, and immediately the cedar-lined chambers
about the holy house were in a blaze. Titus rushed to the place, followed by his
generals and legionaries, and commanded the soldiers to quench the flames. His
words were unheeded. In their fury the soldiers hurled blazing brands into the
chambers adjoining the temple, and then with their swords they slaughtered in
great numbers those who had found shelter there. Blood flowed down the
temple steps like water. Thousands upon thousands of Jews perished. Above the
sound of battle, voices were heard shouting: "Ichabod!"--the glory is departed. GC
p. 33
"The slaughter within was even more dreadful than the spectacle from without.
Men and women, old and young, insurgents and priests, those who fought and
those who entreated mercy, were hewn down in indiscriminate carnage. The
number of the slain exceeded that of the slayers. The legionaries had to clamber
over heaps of dead to carry on the work of extermination." Milman, The History
of the Jews, book 16. GC p. 35
“In the siege and the slaughter that followed, more than a million of the people
perished; the survivors were carried away as captives, sold as slaves, dragged to
Rome to grace the conqueror's triumph, thrown to wild beasts in the
amphitheaters, or scattered as homeless wanderers throughout the earth.” GC p.
35

Tree and Grass Symbolism

Six months before Jesus began His ministry, John the Baptist compared Israel
to a tree and warned that if it did not produce good fruit it would be cut down
and thrown into the fire. John was specifically referring to the Jewish nation.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 32 of 379
Matthew 3:7-12
“But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he
said to them, "Brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 8
Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, 9 and do not think to say to yourselves,
'We have Abraham as our father.' For I say to you that God is able to raise up
children to Abraham from these stones [the gentiles]. 10 And even now the ax is
laid to the root of the trees. Therefore every tree which does not bear good fruit
is cut down and thrown into the fire.”
    In Luke 13:1, we find a ruler of Rome mingling the blood of the Jews
     with the sacrifices. Later in the first trumpet, we see Rome mingling the
     blood of the Jews with fire. In both contexts, the reason for the
     punishment is the apostasy of Jerusalem.
    Luke 13:1-6 brings to view the same tree that John the Baptist
     mentioned. Two and a half years after Jesus began His ministry the
     Jewish tree still had not produced fruit.

    One year later, in Mark 11:12-14, 20, we meet the tree the final time.
     The final year of Christ’s ministry, the tree still did not produce fruit so
     He cursed it.
      Although Mark does not tell us that the fire burned the dry tree, a
      parallel text helps us see what happens when a tree does not bear fruit.
      In Scripture, the vine is a symbol of Israel (see the parable below).
      When a branch of the vine does not produce fruit, the vinedresser cuts if
      off and throws it into the fire. Thus, there is a connection between the
      fire and the dry tree in the parable and in the first trumpet.
      John 15:5-6
     “I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him,
      bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing. 6 If anyone does not
      abide in Me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered; and they gather
      them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned.”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 33 of 379
Ellen White wrote:
“Terribly was it realized in the destruction of Jerusalem. Terribly has it been
manifested in the condition of the Jewish nation for eighteen hundred years—a
branch severed from the vine, a dead, fruitless branch, to be gathered up and
burned. From land to land throughout the world, from century to century, dead,
dead in trespasses and sins!” DA p. 739
The parable of Matthew 21:33-46 repeats the fact that Israel bore no fruit.
Luke 23:27-31: These are the most important verses to understand the first
trumpet:
“And a great multitude of the people followed Him, and women who also mourned
and lamented Him. 28 But Jesus, turning to them, said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do
not weep for Me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. 29 For indeed the
days are coming in which they will say, 'Blessed are the barren, wombs that never
bore, and breasts which never nursed!' 30 Then they will begin 'to say to the
mountains, "Fall on us!" and to the hills, "Cover us!"' [Fulfilled finally in
Revelation 6:16, 17; Revelation 1:7; Matthew 26:64; Matthew 23:39] 31 For if
they do these things in the green wood, what will be done in the dry?" [This must
be seen in the light of the fig tree that dried up by the roots because they
condemned Jesus who is represented by a green tree. The key phrase is
‘dried up by the roots’. Thus, the Jewish nation was the dried up tree]
Ellen White explained the meaning of Luke 23:31:
“From the fall of Jerusalem the thoughts of Jesus passed to a wider judgment. In
the destruction of the impenitent city, He saw a symbol of the final destruction to
come upon the world. He said, "Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall
on us; and to the hills, Cover us. For if they do these things in a green tree, what
shall be done in the dry?" By the green tree, Jesus represented Himself, the
innocent Redeemer. God suffered His wrath against transgression to fall on His
beloved Son. Jesus was to be crucified for the sins of men. What suffering, then,
would the sinner bear who continued in sin? All the impenitent and unbelieving
would know a sorrow and misery that language would fail to express.” DA p. 743


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 34 of 379
The Methodist commentator, Adam Clarke added these thoughts on the
meaning of Luke 23:31:
“This seems to be a proverbial expression, the sense of which is: If they spare not
a tree which, by the beauty of its foliage, abundance and excellence of its fruits,
deserves to be preserved, then the tree which is dry and withered will surely be
cut down. If a people who profess to be governed and directed by divine laws, what
desolation, put an innocent man to death in the very face of justice, in opposition
to all its dictates and decisions, injustice, and oppression may not be expected,
when anarchy and confusion sit in the place where judgment and justice formerly
presided? Our Lord alludes prophetically to those tribulations which fell upon the
Jewish people about forty years after.” (Adam Clarke's Commentary, Electronic
Database. Copyright (c) 1996 by Biblesoft)
The Presbyterian pastor, Albert Barnes explained the meaning of Luke 23:31:
“This seems to be a proverbial expression. A ‘green’ tree is not easily set on fire; a
dry one is easily kindled and burns rapidly; and the meaning of the passage is- ‘If
they, the Romans, do these things to me, who am innocent and blameless; if they
punish me in this manner in the face of justice, what will they not do in relation to
this guilty nation? What security have they that heavier judgments will not
come upon them? What desolations and woes may not be expected when injustice
and oppression have taken the place of justice, and have set up a rule over this
wicked people?" Our Lord alludes, evidently, to the calamities that would come
upon them by the Romans in the destruction of their city and temple. The
passage may be applied, however, without impropriety, and with great beauty
and force, to the punishment of the wicked in the future world.”
Thus applied, it means that the sufferings of the Savior, as compared with the
sufferings of the guilty, were like the burning of a green tree as compared with
the burning of one that is dry. A green tree is not adapted to burn; a dry one is. So
the Savior—innocent, pure, and holy—stood in relation to suffering.” (Albert
Barnes Commentary, Electronic Database. Copyright (c) 1996 by Biblesoft)




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 35 of 379
The Grass Symbolism

Isaiah 40:6-8
“The voice said, "Cry out!" and he said, "What shall I cry?" "All flesh is grass, and
all its loveliness is like the flower of the field. 7 The grass withers, the flower fades,
because the breath of the Lord blows upon it; surely the people are grass. 8 The
grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever."
Psalm 37:2
“Do not fret because of evildoers, nor be envious of the workers of iniquity. 2 For
they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.”
Psalm 90:5-7
“You carry them away like a flood; they are like a sleep. In the morning, they are
like grass that grows up: 6 In the morning it flourishes and grows up; in the
evening it is cut down and withers. 7 For we have been consumed by Your anger,
and by Your wrath we are terrified.”
Psalm 92:6, 7
“A senseless man does not know, nor does a fool understand this. 7 When the
wicked spring up like grass, and when all the workers of iniquity flourish, it is
that they may be destroyed forever.”




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 36 of 379
         “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
            A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                         BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


        CHAPTER 3: THE SECOND TRUMPET
Revelation 8:8-9
“Then the second angel sounded: And something like a great mountain burning
with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood. And a
third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were
destroyed.”

An Important Principle

Galatians 6:7
“Do not be deceived, God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, that he will
also reap.”
The principle expressed in this verse not only applies to individuals but also
to nations. Regarding France, Ellen White wrote:
“Unhappy France reaped in blood the harvest she had sown. Terrible were the
results of her submission to the controlling power of Rome.”
Isaiah 10:5, 6, 12 (see Ezekiel 35:5-7 for another example)
God used Assyria as His instrument to punish His apostate people and then He
punished Assyria for treading down His people:

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 37 of 379
“Woe to Assyria, the rod of My anger and the staff in whose hand is My
indignation. 6 I will send him against an ungodly nation, and against the people
of My wrath I will give him charge, to seize the spoil, to take the prey, and to tread
them down like the mire of the streets. . . 12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when
the Lord has performed all His work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, that He will
say, "I will punish the fruit of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria, and the
glory of his haughty looks."
Jeremiah 27:6, 7
“And now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king
of Babylon, My servant; and the beasts of the field I have also given him to serve
him. 7 So all nations shall serve him and his son and his son's son, until the time
of his land comes; and then many nations and great kings shall make him serve
them.”
Nebuchadnezzar was God’s servant to punish apostate Israel and then God
punished Nebuchadnezzar for treading down His people. Jeremiah chapters 50
and 51 describe how God punished Babylon for oppressing His people:
Jeremiah 50:14, 15, 17, 18, 28
"Because you were glad, because you rejoiced, you destroyers of My heritage, 15
Shout against her all around; She has given her hand, Her foundations have fallen,
Her walls are thrown down; For it is the vengeance of the Lord. Take vengeance
on her. As she has done, so do to her. 17 "Israel is like scattered sheep; the lions
have driven him away. First the king of Assyria devoured him; now at last this
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has broken his bones." 18 Therefore thus says
the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: "Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon
and his land, As I have punished the king of Assyria. 28 The voice of those who
flee and escape from the land of Babylon declares in Zion the vengeance of the
Lord our God, the vengeance of His temple.”
Jeremiah 51:24, 34, 35, 49, 50
“And I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the evil they
have done in Zion in your sight," says the Lord. 34 "Nebuchadnezzar the king of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 38 of 379
Babylon has devoured me, he has crushed me; he has made me an empty vessel,
he has swallowed me up like a monster; he has filled his stomach with my
delicacies, he has spit me out. 35 Let the violence done to me and my flesh be upon
Babylon," the inhabitant of Zion will say; "And my blood be upon the
inhabitants of Chaldea!" Jerusalem will say. 49 As Babylon has caused the slain
of Israel to fall, so at Babylon the slain of all the earth shall fall. 50 You who have
escaped the sword; get away! Do not stand still! Remember the Lord afar off and
let Jerusalem come to your mind.”

Who Destroyed Jerusalem the First Time?

Who destroyed Jerusalem the first time in the year 586 BC? Was it God,
Nebuchadnezzar, or did Israel destroy itself?
Daniel 9:14 explicitly states that God destroyed Jerusalem:
“Therefore the Lord has kept the disaster in mind, and brought it upon us; for
the Lord our God is righteous in all the works which He does, though we have not
obeyed His voice.”
2 Chronicles 36:17-19 states that Nebuchadnezzar (whom God calls ‘my
servant’ in Jeremiah 27:6) destroyed the city and the temple:
“Therefore He brought against them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their
young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion
on young man or virgin, on the aged or the weak; He gave them all into his hand.
18 And all the articles from the house of God, great and small, the treasures of the

house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king and of his leaders, all these he
took to Babylon. 19 Then they [the Babylonians] burned the house of God, broke
down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all its
precious possessions. “
Daniel 9:11, 14, 15 Israel’s sins brought about the destruction of the city and
the temple:
“Yes, all Israel has transgressed Your law, and has departed so as not to obey
Your voice; therefore the curse and the oath written in the Law of Moses the


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 39 of 379
servant of God have been poured out on us, because we have sinned against Him.
14 Therefore the Lord has kept the disaster in mind, and brought it upon us; for

the Lord our God is righteous in all the works that He does, though we have not
obeyed His voice. 15 And now, O Lord our God, who brought Your people out of the
land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and made Yourself a name, as it is this day —
we have sinned, we have done wickedly!”
Jeremiah 38:23 (also verses 17, 18):
In fact, the prophet Jeremiah told Israel: If you do not submit to the king of
Babylon, ‘you shall cause this city to be burned with fire.’
This is how it all fits together:
Because of Israel’s sins, God employed His servant Nebuchadnezzar to destroy
the city and the temple. However, God would not have used Nebuchadnezzar to
destroy them if it had not been for the sins of the people. In other words, Israel,
because of her own sinful choices, brought destruction upon herself. Now let us
consider the second destruction of Jerusalem.

The Second Destruction of Jerusalem

Daniel 9:26 states that ‘the people of the prince’ destroyed Jerusalem the second
time in the year AD 70. The prince in Daniel 9 is Christ. If the prince of verse 26
is Jesus, then the people of the prince must be the Jews (remember that the
word ‘people’ throughout Daniel 9 always refers to Israel (see verses 15, 16, 19,
20, 24). The critical question then is this: Did the Jews destroy their own city
and sanctuary? At first sight, the idea seems absurd and preposterous. After all,
the Jews did not destroy their own city and sanctuary, did they? Did not Titus
and the Romans destroy the city and the temple?
The parable of the wedding in Matthew 22:1-14 explains clearly who destroyed
Jerusalem the second time. Similarly to the parable of the vineyard workers in
Matthew 21:33-46, God the Father sent servants to Israel to invite them to the
marriage of his son (verses 2-3). This first stage of the parable represents the
Old Testament period when God sent prophets to prepare Israel for the coming
of the Messiah. Israel rejected the invitations of the prophets. Then, after Christ

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 40 of 379
was sacrificed (verse 4), the Father sent further servants (Peter, John Stephen,
Paul, etc.) to extend an invitation to the same people but they rejected these
messages as well (verses 5-6). Verse 7 describes the king’s reaction to the
second rejection:
“But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth; and he sent forth his armies,
and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.”
Three ideas coalesce in this verse. [1] God used the [2] Roman armies (spoken
of as his armies) to destroy [3] those murderers and to burn their city.
Clearly, the people, by rejecting the Messiah, brought destruction upon their
own city (see also, Hosea 13:9). Although God used Titus and the Roman armies
to destroy the city and the temple, the choice of the Jewish nation really
determined its fate. Ellen White concurs with this scenario:
“The Jews had forged their own fetters; they had filled for themselves the cup of
vengeance. In the utter destruction that befell them as a nation, and in all the
woes that followed them in their dispersion, they were but reaping the harvest
which their own hands had sown. Says the prophet: “O Israel, thou hast
destroyed thyself;” “for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity.” Hosea 13:9; 14:1.
Their sufferings are often represented as a punishment visited upon them by the
direct decree of God. It is thus that the great deceiver seeks to conceal his own
work. By stubborn rejection of divine love and mercy, the Jews had caused the
protection of God to be withdrawn from them, and Satan was permitted to rule
them according to his will.” GC p. 35-36.

The Burning Mountain

Mountains in Bible prophecy represent kingdoms so the fall of a kingdom must
be in view in the second trumpet (Daniel 2:35, 44, 45; Isaiah 14:13; Psalm 48:1,
2; Isaiah 2:1-4). This mountain must represent a kingdom that destroyed
Jerusalem and persecuted God’s people.
Jeremiah 50:3, 9, 10, 41, 42: An enemy from the north, like the waves of the
sea came against Babylon and demolished her:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 41 of 379
“For out of the north a nation comes up against her, which shall make her land
desolate, and no one shall dwell therein. They shall move, they shall depart, both
man and beast. 9 For behold, I will raise and cause to come up against Babylon an
assembly of great nations from the North Country, and they shall array
themselves against her; from there she shall be captured. Their arrows shall be
like those of an expert warrior; none shall return in vain. 10 And Chaldea shall
become plunder; all who plunder her shall be satisfied," says the Lord. 41 "Behold,
a people shall come from the north, and a great nation and many kings shall
be raised up from the ends of the earth. 42 They shall hold the bow and the lance;
they are cruel and shall not show mercy. Their voice shall roar like the sea; they
shall ride on horses, set in array, like a man for the battle, against you, O daughter
of Babylon.”
Jeremiah 51:25: The prophet Jeremiah compared the kingdom of Babylon with
a destroying mountain. Eventually this destroying mountain became a
burning mountain that was thrust into the sea (the passive voice ‘was
thrown’ indicates that this is God’s judgment). This is the key verse to
understand the second trumpet.
"And I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the evil they
have done in Zion in your sight," says the Lord. 25 "Behold, I am against you, O
destroying mountain, who destroys all the earth," says the Lord. "And I will
stretch out My hand against you, roll you down from the rocks, and make you a
burnt mountain.”
The fact that the second trumpet describes the mountain as GREAT brings to
mind Babylon the Great later on in the book of Revelation (Rev. 16:19; 17:1, 5;
18:2, 21).

The Sea

Jeremiah 51:42
“The sea has come up over Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of its
waves.”



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 42 of 379
Note: The waves of the sea destroyed Babylon and made her desolate. In this
case, the sea represents the multitude of nations that arose against Babylon and
destroyed her.
Isaiah 17:12-14
“Woe to the multitude of many people who make a noise like the roar of the
seas, and to the rushing of nations that make a rushing like the rushing of
mighty waters! 13 The nations will rush like the rushing of many waters; but
God will rebuke them [dry them up] and they will flee far away, and be chased
like the chaff of the mountains before the wind [similar to Daniel 2:35], like a
rolling thing before the whirlwind. 14 Then behold, at eventide, trouble! And before
the morning, he is no more. This is the portion of those who plunder us, and the
lot of those who rob us.”
Isaiah 60:5
“Then you shall see and become radiant, and your heart shall swell with joy;
because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the
Gentiles [‘nations’ NIV] shall come to you.”
Revelation 17:15
“Then he said to me, "The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are
peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues.”
Jeremiah 51:60-64
“So Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that would come upon Babylon, all these
words that are written against Babylon. 61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, "When
you arrive in Babylon and see it, and read all these words, 62 then you shall say, 'O
Lord, You have spoken against this place to cut it off, so that none shall remain in
it, neither man nor beast, but it shall be desolate forever.' 63 Now it shall be, when
you have finished reading this book, that you shall tie a stone to it and throw it
out into the Euphrates. 64 Then you shall say, 'Thus Babylon shall sink and not
rise from the catastrophe that I will bring upon her. And they shall be weary.'"



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 43 of 379
Revelation 18:21
“Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the
sea, saying, "Thus with violence the great city Babylon shall be thrown down,
and shall not be found anymore.”

Time Frame of the Burning Mountain

Since the days of Daniel, four major kingdoms have risen to power and fallen.
They are Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece and Rome. The power that ruled in the
days when John wrote the book of Revelation was Rome. Literal Babylon had
already fallen when John saw his vision of the trumpets therefore the
mountain of the second trumpet cannot refer to the fall of literal Old
Testament Babylon.
The critical question is this: Which kingdom destroyed Jerusalem, desolated
God’s people and then in turn suffered the punishment of God? The only answer
is Rome.
In Revelation 17, we see a dragon beast with seven heads. However, the heads
are actually seven mountains. Each of these heads/mountains represents a
kingdom that ruled beginning with Babylon. The burning mountain that cast
into the sea at the sounding of the second trumpet was the fourth of those
mountains or heads of Revelation 17, namely the Roman Empire. Someone
might wonder whether it is legitimate to take biblical terminology that
describes literal Babylon and apply it symbolically to the Roman Empire. The
answer is yes for several reasons.

The Apocrypha and Rome

The Jews in the intertestamental period understood that the Roman Empire
was a ‘new Babylon’:
“. . . then shall come a great star from heaven into the divine sea, and shall burn
up the deep sea and Babylon itself, and the land of Italy on whose account many
faithful saints of the Hebrews have perished, and the true people.” Sibylline
Oracles, lines 158-161

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 44 of 379
“But the king of Babylon will arise who has now destroyed Zion, and he will
boast over the people, and he will speak great things in his heart in the presence
of the Most High. But he also shall fall at last.” 2 Baruch 67:7, 8
When the anonymous author wrote the book of 2Baruch literal Babylon had
already fallen and had no king.
1 Peter 5:13
“She who is in Babylon, elect together with you, greets you; and so does Mark
my son.”
Many scholars believe that Babylon in this text is a cryptic reference to Rome.
There is persuasive contextual evidence that this is so. God appointed Peter as
His messenger to the Jews. Peter wrote his first epistle close to the end of his
life and we know that at the end of his life he was in Rome where he would die
as a martyr by the hand of Nero.
It hardly makes sense for Peter to write from Rome and send greetings to
others from people who lived in Babylon. The words ‘she who is in Babylon
greets you’ and ‘so does Mark my son’ make no sense unless the greeters were in
the same place as Peter. Why would Peter, who was in Rome, send greetings
from people living in literal Babylon 2,754 miles away?
There is no evidence that Peter was ever in literal Babylon. Mark was certainly
in the same place as Peter. Thus, the word ‘Babylon’ must be a cryptic
reference to Rome. We must remember that the book of Revelation refers to
Rome as ‘Babylon’.
Nero died in 68 AD and Nero martyred Peter so Peter must have died
sometime before 68 AD. Most scholars date the first epistle of Peter to
sometime between 64 and 68 AD. Ellen White confirms that Peter, late in life,
ministered in Rome and that Nero martyred him:
“In the providence of God, Peter was permitted to close his ministry in Rome,
where his imprisonment was ordered by the emperor Nero about the time of
Paul's final arrest. Thus the two veteran apostles, who for many years had been

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 45 of 379
widely separated in their labors, were to bear their last witness for Christ in the
world's metropolis, and upon its soil to shed their blood as the seed of a vast
harvest of saints and martyrs.” AA, p. 537

The Zoroastrian Persians

In order to understand fully the link between Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon and
pagan Rome, we need go back to some events that occurred during the period
of the Medo-Persian Empire.
When the Medes and Persians conquered Babylon, they introduced a new
religion. The name of this new religion is Zoroastrianism. Unlike most ancient
religions, Zoroastrianism was monotheistic. This teaches that there is one
true Almighty God, whose name is Ahura-Mazda, the God of light. However,
Ahura-Mazda has an arch-adversary called Ahriman who inhabits the realm of
darkness. According to Zoroastrianism, there is a constant battle or great
controversy between Ahura-Mazda and Ahriman (Humphrey Prideaux, An
Historical Connection of the Old and New Testaments (London: William Tegg
and Co., 1858), pp. 149-150.
Ancient history reveals that almost all nations had an incurable tendency
toward polytheism. We can see this, for example, in the lurid description that
the apostle Paul provides in Romans 1:18-32. Even Israel, before the
Babylonian captivity, was obsessed with foreign gods. It is indeed unusual to
find a nation in a polytheistic environment that suddenly confesses
monotheism. I know of only two other cases. One is in Egypt during the reign of
Tutankhamen (was it because of what the Hebrew God did to Egyptian
civilization at the Exodus?) and the other is Persia. Why did Persia adopt a
strictly monotheistic spirituality?
Shortly after the fall of Babylon, Daniel had an encounter with Cyrus, King of
Persia. The prophet opened up to Cyrus the prophecies of Isaiah regarding the
role he would play in the fall of Babylon. In fact, Daniel showed Cyrus that God
had chosen him by name to deliver His people one hundred years before his



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 46 of 379
birth (Isaiah 45:1). When Cyrus heard this, he was deeply impressed. Ezra
reveals that Cyrus had great respect for the God of the Hebrews:
Ezra 1:1-4
“Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: All the kingdoms of the earth the Lord God of
heaven has given me and He has commanded me to build Him a house at
Jerusalem which is in Judah. 3 Who is among you of all His people? May his God be
with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem which is in Judah, and build the house of
the Lord God of Israel (He is God), which is in Jerusalem. 4 And whoever is left in
any place where he dwells, let the men of his place help him with silver and gold,
with goods and livestock, besides the freewill offerings for the house of God which
is in Jerusalem”.
Regarding the encounter between Daniel and Cyrus, Ellen White made the
following enlightening remark:
“As the king saw the words foretelling, more than a hundred years before his birth,
the manner in which Babylon should be taken; as he read the message addressed
to him by the Ruler of the universe. . . . his heart was profoundly moved, and he
determined to fulfill his divinely appointed mission.” PK p. 557.
There is persuasive evidence that the Persian Empire came to know the true
God primarily through the contacts of Darius and Cyrus with Daniel.
Some scholars believe that the wise men who came to visit Jesus were from
Persia. They were not idolaters. Ellen White refers to these wise men from the
east as ‘philosophers’. She also states that these ‘magi studied the starry
heavens’ with the aid of the Hebrew Scriptures. Regarding this, she wrote:
“Seeking clearer knowledge [than what they could discern by a study of the
starry heavens] they turned to the Hebrew Scriptures. In their own land were
treasured prophetic writings that predicted the coming of a divine teacher.”
DA, p. 59




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 47 of 379
Then Ellen White shared a very significant insight:
“Balaam belonged to the magicians, though at one time a prophet of God; by the
Holy Spirit he had foretold the prosperity of Israel and the appearing of the
Messiah; and his prophecies had been handed down by tradition from century to
century. But in the Old Testament the Savior’s advent was more clearly revealed.”
DA, p. 59
Then Ellen White explained about the Star:
“It was not a fixed star nor a planet, and the phenomenon excited the keenest
interest. That star was a distant company of shining angels. However, of this
the wise men were ignorant. Yet they were impressed that the star was of special
import to them. They consulted priests and philosophers, and searched the scrolls
of the ancient records.” DA pp. 59-60.
Finally, Ellen White tells us that they found Balaam’s prophecy of Numbers
24:7.
“These men [those who said: ‘we would see Jesus’] came from the West
[Greece] to find the Savior at the close of His life, as the wise men had come from
the East at the beginning.” DA, p. 621

The Slaughter of the Babylonian Priests

However, even after monotheism took hold in the kingdom, there were still
polytheistic Babylonian priests, of the Daniel 2 type, in the realm. These were
angry that their religion had been overthrown and they looked for every
opportunity to reestablish their lost dominion. Cyrus died in 530 BC and
Cambyses who succeeded him governed for seven and one half years.
History tells us that King Cambyses went on an expedition to Egypt and when
he was in Syria and on the way back to Persia, a herald arrived from Shushan
who rode into the midst of the army and proclaimed that Smerdis, the son of
Cyrus, had been crowned king and that all must obey him.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 48 of 379
When Cambyses left for Egypt, he had placed Patizithes to tend to
governmental affairs in his absence. Patizithes had a brother who greatly
resembled Smerdis. In fact, he had the same name. Cambyses was jealous of
Cyrus’ son and had him killed. According to historians, Cambyses was a lunatic
who was always looking over his shoulder, suspicious of all and murdering any
potential rival.
For example, Cambyses married his youngest sister because she was very
beautiful. However, one day he kicked her in the abdomen and killed her
because she cried when she heard that Smerdis had died. She was pregnant at
the time, and her baby died as well. Cambyses had several of his loyal
supporters buried alive for no reason at all!
After Cambyses killed Smerdis, Patizithes placed his Smerdis look-alike
brother on the throne. Historians refer to him as ‘false Smerdis’. Patizithes then
informed everyone that false Smerdis was the true son of Cyrus.
This false Smerdis was a Mede (not a Persian like Cyrus) and the chief leader
of the Babylonian Magi who remained after the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus.
He hated the Jews and gave a decree halting the rebuilding of the Jerusalem
temple at the bequest of the Samaritans. Ellen White described False Smerdis:
“During the reign of Cambyses the work on the temple progressed slowly. And
during the reign of the false Smerdis (called Artaxerxes in Ezra 4:7) the
Samaritans induced the unscrupulous impostor to issue a decree forbidding the
Jews to rebuild their temple and city.” PK, pp. 572, 573

However, the imposture did not last long. Seven Persians of the nobility entered
the royal palace (the name of the leader was Otanes) and slew false Smerdis
and his brother Patizithes. At the same time, there was a great slaughter of
the polytheistic Magi of the Babylonian type who sympathized with false
Smerdis.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 49 of 379
Significantly, a remnant survived the carnage and fled to the city of Pergamum
in Asia Minor. Darius the Persian then reestablished the holy temples and
monotheistic religion of Ahura-Mazda (for more on this read, Humphrey
Prideaux, An Historical Connection of the Old and New Testaments, volume 1,
pp. 145-147, 205-207).
Later in the Persian dynasty, King Xerxes (the Ahasuerus of the book of Esther)
rose to power. He was a staunch defender of the monotheistic religion of
Persia and a detester of polytheism. In the year 480 BC, he destroyed the
polytheistic temples of the Greeks and also undertook a campaign to Babylon
where he destroyed the pagan temples there. (See, Humphrey Prideaux, An
Historical Connection of the Old and New Testaments, volume 1, pp. 214-215.
Once again, the Babylonian Magi fled to Pergamum for refuge. In this way,
the Babylonian Magi established their polytheistic religion in the city of
Pergamum in Asia Minor.

Pergamum and Pagan Rome

Historians have documented that the pagan Roman Empire grew out of Asia
Minor. We know this for several reasons.
First, the Roman poet, Virgil, tells us that Roman civilization and culture came
from the ancient city of Troy in Asia Minor. In his famous epic, The Aenid
(which he wrote during a period of eleven years, 30-19 BC), Virgil tells about a
Trojan prince who was exiled to Italy in the 12th century BC when Troy was
destroyed by the Greeks. According to Virgil, this prince established the first
settlement in Italy.
The notable work, The Migration of the Etruscans also tells us that Roman
civilization and culture grew out of Asia Minor.
Wrote Christopher S. Mackay:
“. . . Roman political and religious practices were strongly influenced by the
Etruscans. Early Roman art and religion were also strongly influenced by the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 50 of 379
Etruscans, and the Romans seem to have developed their writing system from
them. . . Hence, while the Greeks were a strong cultural influence on early Rome,
the Etruscans had a more immediate influence. Herodotus tells us that before
the Trojan War, the Etruscans migrated from Lydia (in western Asia Minor) to
Rome as a result of a great drought which lasted for 25 years”.
(Http://www.ualberta.ca/~csmackay/CLASS_365/Etruscans.html).
Rome did not only borrow its civilization and culture from Asia Minor, they
also borrowed their religion from there.
Christopher Mackay adds:
“The Etruscans were considered a very religious people in antiquity, and the
Romans borrowed many religious customs from them.”
In 67 AD, Roman general Pompeii undertook an expedition to do away with a
grave problem of pirates in Asia Minor. History confirms that Pompeii
embraced the religion of the sun god Mithra there. In fact, Mithraism became
the official religion of the Roman legions.
Franz Cumont who spent a good share of his lifetime studying the religion of
the Roman Empire explained the phenomenal growth of Mithraism in Rome:
“All the original rites that characterized the Mithraic cult of the Romans
unquestionably go back to Asiatic origins. . . . The principal agent of its diffusion
was undoubtedly the army. The Mithraic religion is predominantly a religion of
soldiers, and it was not without good reason that the name of milites was given
to a certain grade of initiates. . . .” (Franz Cumont, The Mysteries of Mithra (New
York: Dover Publications, 1956), pp. 30, 40)
Cumont explained that ‘the original home of Mithra was not infrequently
placed on the banks of the Euphrates [Babylon]. . . .’
He added:



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 51 of 379
“Very early the [Babylonian] Magi had crossed Mesopotamia and penetrated
to the heart of Asia Minor.” (Franz Cumont, The Mysteries of Mithra, pp. 10-11).
Clearly, Asia Minor was the link that connected the religion of ancient
Babylon with the religion of the Roman Empire. This is a pivotal point that we
will return to in a few moments.
According to Cumont,
“It can be proved that all our representations of the tauroctonous [bull like]
Mithra, the hieratic figure of which was fixed before the propagation of the
Mysteries in the Occident, are more or less faithful replicas of a type created by a
sculptor of the school of Pergamum, in imitation of the sacrificing victory which
adorned the balustrade of the temple of Athena Nike on the Acropolis.” (Franz
Cumont, The Mysteries of Mithra (New York: Dover Publications, 1956), p 210.
Pergamum was the only one of the four Macedonian kingdoms that Rome did
not have to fight to overcome. King Attalus II willed the kingdom of
Pergamum to the Roman Senate in the year 133 BC (See, Encyclopedia
Britannica, article, ‘Pergamum’).
The willing of the kingdom of Pergamum to Rome not only gave Rome a
foothold in Asia Minor from where it could conquer the nations of the East,
but it also became the bridge that made it possible for Rome to come in contact
with God’s covenant people, Israel. This led to the fulfillment of the prophecy
of Daniel 8.
The Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs describes the strategic importance of
Asia Minor (http://www.ptr.co.nz/turkey;pergamum.htm):
“The role played by Asia Minor in Western culture was: primarily determined by
its geographical position. Whereas all the Mediterranean peninsulas Iberian,
Italian, Greek extend from north to south, Asia Minor, alone stretching from east
to west forms a unique bridge. It was this which caused the civilizations arising


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 52 of 379
in the East in general, and on its territory in particular, to orient themselves
towards the West, by way of the Aegean islands.”

Pergamum: The Hinge between Pagan and Papal Rome

So far, we have traced the transfer of Babylonian idolatrous religion from
Babylon through Asia Minor to pagan Rome. However, the story does not end
there. According to the book of Revelation, Pergamum is also the link between
pagan Rome and papal Rome. How is this? In order to answer this question,
we must turn to Revelation 2 and 3, and the seven churches.
Conservative Bible students believe that the seven churches depict seven
epochs in the history of the Christian Church. Regarding this, Ellen G. White
wrote:
 “The names of the seven churches are symbolic of the church in different periods
of the Christian era. The number 7 indicates completeness, and is symbolic of the
fact that the messages extend to the end of time, while the symbols used reveal
the condition of the church at different periods in the history of the world.” AA
p. 585)
Ellen White is not alone in this assessment. In a sermon preached by Ray C.
Stedman on November 19, 1989, he described the meaning of the seven
churches:
“The entire church age is brought before us in the purview of these letters.” (Ray
Stedman, ‘Smyrna and Pergamum: The Pressured Church and the Compromising
Church’).
A careful study of the first three churches (Ephesus, Smyrna and Pergamum,)
reveals a progression (or ‘regression’) from the Apostolic church to the
Compromising church in the days of Constantine. The Church of Ephesus
symbolizes the apostolic period. Smyrna represents the persecuted church
during the rule of the Roman Empire. This is indicated by the ‘death language’



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 53 of 379
that appears in the context of this church (see, Revelation 2:8-11). Stedman
described the church during this period:
“Prophetically viewed, this church [Smyrna] is a picture of the period in history
from about 160 A. D. to 320 A. D., the rise of Constantine, the first so-called
Christian emperor. The whole period has been termed the ‘Age of Martyrs’.”
Stedman then sees the church of Pergamum as the period when the church
amalgamated with the world in the days of Constantine preparatory to the
full-blown apostasy of the papal church. With respect to this, Stedman said:
“Prophetically, this is the period from the accession of Constantine in 320 A. D.
to the rise of the papacy in the 6th century. During that period were held the
great councils of the church... However, it was also the time of the wedding of the
church and the world under Constantine. . . . Constantine was not really a true
Christian. He adopted many pagan practices and brought them into the church
where they were accepted. Christianity was popular in those days, and many
pagan practices were incorporated into it. This began when the church was
viewed as a worldly kingdom, like any other kingdom.”
Ellen G. White concurred with Stedman’s assessment. In GC p. 49-50 she wrote:
“The nominal conversion of Constantine in the early part of the fourth century,
caused great rejoicing; and the world, cloaked with a form of righteousness,
walked into the church. Now the work of corruption rapidly progressed.
Paganism, while appearing to be vanquished, became the conqueror. Her spirit
controlled the church. Her doctrines, ceremonies, and superstitions were
incorporated into the faith and worship of the professed followers of Christ.”
Revelation 2:13 tells us that Pergamum was the place where Satan’s throne
was. A king sits on a throne and therefore we must conclude that Pergamum was
the See of Satan’s kingdom.
Let us now turn to Revelation 12:1-5, 7-9. The dragon in this passage
symbolizes Satan working through the Roman Empire. We know that at this

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 54 of 379
time, Satan’s throne was in Rome because Revelation 13:2 tells us that the
dragon then gave his throne to the beast. That is to say, the dragon (symbolic of
Satan working through the Roman Empire) gave the beast (papal Rome) ‘his
power, and throne and great authority’. Thus, Satan’s throne moved from the
Empire of Rome to Papal Rome. Where was Satan’s throne between pagan Rome
and papal Rome? In Pergamum (Revelation 2:13).
Before we proceed further with this thought, we must consider another
expression in Christ’s message to the church of Pergamum. Verse 14 tells us that
Pergamum holds ‘the doctrine of Balaam’ (Revelation 2:14). What is the doctrine
of Balaam? To find the answer, we must go back to the place where the Bible
mentions Balaam and that is Numbers 22-24.

Pergamum and the Doctrine of Balaam

Numbers 21:10ff informs us that Israel had gained signal victories over their
enemies. They had wiped out the Ammonites and the Moabites feared that they
would be next. For this reason, Balak, king of the Moabites, attempted to
persuade and bribe Balaam to curse Israel. However, at the time, Israel had a
strong covenant relationship with the Lord and Balaam could not curse them
as long as they remained faithful to God. (Numbers 22:6, 12, 18; 23:8-10, 20-23;
24:5, 9).
We are reminded that according to Ellen White, Balaam originally belonged to
the group of faithful wise men but later sold himself to a group of idolatrous
Moabite priests who were experts in the art of divination (Numbers 22:7;
23:23). We find here, very early in the history of Israel, the two types of Magi,
which later reappear in Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon and in the kingdom of Medo-
Persia.
When Balaam failed to curse Israel for Balak, he suggested a demonic plan. If he
could entice the Israelite men to commit literal fornication with the daughters
of Moab and celebrate their idolatrous rites, God would withdraw His protection
and Israel would become easy prey.

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 55 of 379
This is precisely the strategy that Balaam used, according to Numbers 25:1-3
(according to Revelation 2:14 Balaam suggested the plan). Just as Balaam
expected, Israel forsook the Lord, the Lord withdrew His protection, and Israel
lost 24,000 men. However, not everyone apostatized. Numbers 25:6-8 tells the
triumphant story of how Phinehas exalted God’s honor.
In this way, spiritual Pergamum became the link between pagan Rome and papal
Rome. We have previously seen that papal Rome was a continuation of pagan
Rome (see, the document, “Why Papal Rome is a Continuation of Pagan Rome”).
We have seen that the literal kingdom of Pergamum was the link between
ancient Babylon and the Roman Empire and spiritual Pergamum links the
Roman Empire with papal Rome. Thus, there is an unbroken chain between
ancient Babylon and papal Rome.

Papal Rome and Protestantism

However, there is more to this story. The papacy bequeathed the observance of
Sunday (as well as other heresies) to Protestants. John O’Brien, who for many
years taught at Notre Dame University described this Sunday link between
Catholics and Protestants:
“But since Saturday, not Sunday, is specified in the Bible, isn’t it curious that non-
Catholics who profess to take their religion directly from the Bible and not from the
Church, observe Sunday instead of Saturday? Yes, of course, it is inconsistent; but
this change was made about fifteen centuries before Protestantism was born, and
by that time the custom was universally observed. They have continued the custom,
even though it rests upon the authority of the Catholic Church and not upon an
explicit text in the Bible. That observance remains as a reminder of the Mother
Church from which the non-Catholic sects broke away—like a boy running away
from home but still carrying in his pocket a picture of his mother or a lock of her
hair.” John O’Brien, The Faith of Millions (Huntington, Indiana: Our Sunday Visitor,
Inc., 1974) pp. 400, 401.


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 56 of 379
The book of Revelation draws a parallel between the conflict that took place in
the Valley of Dura in literal Babylon and what will take place once more on a
worldwide scale (Revelation 13:11-18).
As in the past, the beast (not literal but symbolic) will make an image (not literal
but symbolic) and command all to worship it. Whoever refuses to worship it,
will be under a death sentence. As I have shown elsewhere, in the days of Daniel,
hidden in the dimensions of the image, was the number 666. At the end, the
number of the beast will be 666. Nebuchadnezzar’s image was a solar symbol
and at the end, the world will worship on the day of the sun, Sunday.
Furthermore, as in the days of Nebuchadnezzar, God will have a faithful
remnant that He will deliver from certain death.
Thus, in a very real sense, pagan Rome grew out of Pergamum (Daniel 8) and
papal Rome grew out of spiritual Pergamum (Revelation 2:13; Daniel 7:8-9).
Finally, Protestantism was born from Catholicism.

Papal Rome Continues Pagan Rome

Historians confirm that Papal Rome is a continuation of Pagan Rome:
“Within three centuries, the Roman Church had transformed the administrative
organization of the Roman Empire into an ecclesiastical system of bishoprics,
dioceses, monasteries, colonies, garrisons, schools, libraries, administrative
centers, envoys, representatives, courts of justice, and a criminal system of intricate
laws all under the direct control of the pope. His Roman Palace, the Lateran,
became the new Senate. The new senators were the cardinals. The bishops who
lived in Rome and the priests and deacons helped the pope to administer this new
imperium.” (Malachi Martin, The Decline and Fall of the Roman Church, p. 105).
“The Roman Church in this way privily [secretly] pushed itself into the place of the
Roman World-Empire, of which it is the actual continuation; the empire has not
perished, but has only undergone a transformation. . . That is no mere ‘clever
remark,’ but the recognition of the true state of the matter historically, and the

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 57 of 379
most appropriate and fruitful way of describing the character of this Church. It still
governs the nations. . . It is a political creation, and as imposing as a World-Empire,
because [it is] the continuation of the Roman Empire. The Pope, who calls himself
“King” and “Pontifex Maximus,” is Caesar’s successor.” (Adolph Harnack, What is
Christianity? pp. 269-270)
“The Empire was falling into decay. The Barbarians knew that its life was failing,
that the old organism was worn out, and they hastened to take possession of the
remains. From every direction, they came for the spoils. The Saxons and the
Angles settled in Great Britain; the Franks invaded Northern Gaul; the Visigoths
made Spain and the region south of the Loire their own; the Burgundians took
possession of the upper valley of the Rhone; the Vandals made conquests in Africa.
The Ostrogoths and Lombards were waiting for their turn to come. Among these
new invaders, some were heretics, others were pagans. What is to become of the
Church? Are its days numbered, and is the Empire to bring it down as its companion
into an open tomb?
“No, the Church will not descend into the tomb. It will survive the Empire. It will
have to pass through days of distress. It will witness calamity after calamity, ruins
heaped upon ruins. However, in the midst of the greatest sadness, it will receive
precious consolations. One after another, these barbarian peoples will submit to its
laws, and will count it a glory to be the Church’s children. The frontiers of the
Church will be extended; its institutions, for a moment shaken by the Barbarians,
will be consolidated, developed, and will adapt themselves to their surroundings.
The papacy, most sorely tried of all, will make a new advance. At length a second
empire will arise, and of this empire, the Pope will be the master—more than this,
he will be the master of Europe. He will dictate his orders to kings who will obey
them.” (Joseph Turmel, The Latin Church in the Middle Ages, p. v, vi.)
“The all-conquering barbarians were storming the gates of Augustine’s city when
the saint died in 430. The North African town of Hippo was one of the last imperial
outposts to be attacked. Rome had already gone under. Only four years before, St.
Augustine’s City of God had laid the theological groundwork for the church to step

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 58 of 379
into the void left by the collapsing Roman Empire.” (Douglas Auchincloss, ‘City of
God and Man’, Time, 76 (December 12, 1960), p. 64.
“The removal of the capital of the Empire from Rome to Constantinople in 330 left
the Western Church, practically free from imperial power, to develop its own form
of organization. The Bishop of Rome, in the seat of the Caesars, was now the
greatest man in the West, and was soon forced to become the political as well as
the spiritual head. To the Western world Rome was still the political capital—
hence the whole habit of mind, all ambition, pride, and sense of glory, and every
social prejudice favored the evolution of the great city into the ecclesiastical
capital. Civil as well as religious disputes were referred to the successor of Peter
for settlement. Again and again, when barbarians attacked Rome, he was
compelled to actually assume military leadership. Eastern Emperors frequently
recognized the high claims of the Popes in order to gain their assistance. It is not
difficult to understand, how, under these responsibilities, the primacy of the Bishop
of Rome, established in the pre-Constantine period, was emphasized and magnified
after 313 [Edict of Milan]. The importance of this fact must not be overlooked. The
organization of the Church was thus put on the same divine basis as the revelation
of Christianity. This idea once accepted led inevitably to the medieval Papacy.”
(Alexander Clarence Flick, The Rise of the Mediaeval Church), pp. 168, 169).
“During the whole medieval period there was in Rome a single spiritual and
temporal authority [the papacy] exercising powers which in the end exceeded
those that had ever lain within the grasp of the Roman emperor.” (R. W. Southern,
Western Society and the Church in the Middle Ages, Vol 2), pp. 24-25.
“The papacy is no other than the ghost of the deceased Roman Empire, sitting
crowned upon the grave thereof.” (Thomas Hobbes, as quoted in, Dave Hunt, A
Woman Rides the Beast, p. 95).
“Christian Rome was the legitimate successor of pagan Rome.... Christ had
triumphed [and] Rome was ready to extend its sway to the heavens themselves.”
(W. H. C. Frend, The Rise of Christianity, p. 773).


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 59 of 379
“The Roman Christian Church was a church of world-wide importance and power,
and her bishop the most influential. Out of the ruins of political Rome arose the
great moral empire in the ‘giant form’ of the Roman Church. In the marvelous rise
of the Roman Church is seen in strong relief the majestic office of the Bishop of
Rome.” (Alexander Clarence Flick, The Rise of the Mediaeval Church, p. 150)
“When the Western empire fell into the hands of the barbarians, the Roman bishop
was the only surviving heir of this imperial past, or, in the well-known dictum of
Hobbes, “the ghost of the deceased Roman empire, sitting crowned upon the grave
thereof.” (Philip Schaff, History of the Christian Church, vol. 3, p. 287)
“Long before the fall of Rome, there had begun to grow up within the Roman
Empire an ecclesiastical state, which was shaping itself upon the imperial
model. This spiritual empire, like the secular empire, possessed a hierarchy of
officers, of which deacons, priests or presbyters, and bishops were the most
important. . . . Another consequence of the fall of the Roman power in the west was
the development of the Papacy. In the absence of an Emperor in the west, the popes
rapidly gained influence and power and soon built up an ecclesiastical empire
that in some respects took the place of the old empire.” (Myers, General History for
Colleges, pp. 348, 316)
“St. Thomas. . . says that the Roman Empire has not ceased, but is changed from
the temporal into the spiritual. . . the temporal power in the old heathen empire of
Rome, and the spiritual power in the supernatural kingdom of God met together.
. . these two powers were blended and fused together; they became one
authority, the emperor ruling from his throne within the sphere of his earthly
jurisdiction, and the Supreme Pontiff ruling likewise from a throne of a higher
sovereignty over the nations. . . the material power which once reigned in Rome
[was] consecrated and sanctified by the investiture of the Vicar of Jesus Christ with
temporal sovereignty over the city where he dwelt. And now for these twelve
hundred years the peace, the perpetuity and faithfulness of the Christian
civilization of Europe, has been owing solely in its principle to this consecration of
the power and authority of the great empire of Rome, taken up of old,

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 60 of 379
perpetuated, preserved, as I have said, by the salt which had been sprinkled from
heaven, and continued in the person of the Supreme Pontiff, and in that order of
Christian civilization of which he has been the creator.” (Cardinal Manning, The
Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 123-128).
“If we extend our view over the ruins of the Western Empire, such is the spectacle
that meets us on every side. . . . the Pax Romana has ceased; it is universal confusion.
But wherever a bishop holds his court, religion protects all that is left of the ancient
order. A new Rome ascends slowly above the horizon. It is the heir of the
religion that it has overthrown; it assumes the outward splendors of the Caesars. .
. . The emperor is no more. . . . However, the Pontifex Maximus abides; he is now the
Vicar of Christ, offering the old civilization to the tribes of the north. He converts
them to his creed, and they serve him as their Father and Judge supreme. This is the
Papal Monarchy, which in its power and its decline overshadows the history of
Europe for a thousand years.” (W. F. Barry, The Papal Monarchy, pp. 45, 46)
Along with Revelation 17:1-6, Ellen White repeatedly refers to the papacy as
‘Rome’ and ‘Babylon’:
“The Waldenses were the first of all the peoples of Europe to obtain a translation
of the Holy Scriptures. Hundreds of years before the Reformation, they possessed
the Bible in manuscript in their native tongue. They had the truth unadulterated,
and this rendered them the special objects of hatred and persecution. They
declared the Church of Rome to be the apostate Babylon of the Apocalypse, and at
the peril of their lives they stood up to resist her corruptions.” GC p. 65
“The woman (Babylon) of Revelation 17 is described as ‘arrayed in purple and
scarlet color, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden
cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness . . . and upon her forehead was
a name written, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots.’ Says the
prophet: "I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood
of the martyrs of Jesus." Babylon is further declared to be ‘that great city, which
reigneth over the kings of the earth.’ Revelation 17:4-6, 18. The power that for so
many centuries maintained despotic sway over the monarchs of Christendom is

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 61 of 379
Rome. The purple and scarlet color, the gold and precious stones and pearls, vividly
picture the magnificence and more than kingly pomp affected by the haughty see
of Rome. Furthermore, no other power could be so truly declared, "drunken with
the blood of the saints" as that church which has so cruelly persecuted the followers
of Christ. Babylon is also charged with the sin of unlawful connection with "the
kings of the earth." It was by departure from the Lord, and alliance with the
heathen, that the Jewish church became a harlot; and Rome, corrupting herself in
like manner by seeking the support of worldly powers, receives a like
condemnation.” GC p. 382

The Fish

Habakkuk 1:14-15
“Why do You make men like fish of the sea, like creeping things that have no ruler
over them? 15 They take up all of them with a hook, they catch them in their net,
and gather them in their dragnet.
Ecclesiastes 9:12
“For man also does not know his time: like fish taken in a cruel net, like birds
caught in a snare, so the sons of men are snared in an evil time, when it falls
suddenly upon them.”
Ezekiel 29:3-4
“Speak, and say, 'Thus says the Lord God: "Behold, I am against you, O Pharaoh king
of Egypt, O great monster who lies in the midst of his rivers, who has said, 'My
River is my own; I have made it for myself.' 4 But I will put hooks in your jaws, and
cause the fish of your rivers to stick to your scales; I will bring you up out of the
midst of your rivers, and all the fish in your rivers will stick to your scales.”




    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 62 of 379
Matthew 4:19
“And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee saw two brothers Simon called Peter, and
Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. 19 Then He
said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men."

Ships

In Scripture, ships generally refer to trading and commercial prosperity.
Ezekiel 27:9, 25, 29
“Elders of Gebal and its wise men were in you to caulk your seams; all the ships of
the sea and their oarsmen were in you to market your merchandise . . . 25 the
ships of Tarshish were carriers of your merchandise. You were filled and very
glorious in the midst of the seas . . . 29 "All who handle the oar, the mariners, and
all the pilots of the sea will come down from their ships and stand on the shore.
Revelation 18:17-19
“Every shipmaster, all who travel by ship, sailors, and as many as trade on the sea,
stood at a distance 18 and cried out when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying,
'What is like this great city?' 19 "They threw dust on their heads and cried out,
weeping and wailing, and saying, 'Alas, alas, that great city, in which all who had
ships on the sea became rich by her wealth! For in one hour she is made desolate.'

Summary of the Second Trumpet

At the sounding of the second trumpet, instead of temporal prosperity, the
barbarians invaded the Empire, destroyed the routes of commerce, and
decimated the prosperity of Rome. The judgment of the second trumpet brought
the collapse of the entire social and economic order of the Roman Empire.
The barbarians invaded the Empire between 378 and 476 AD. In 378 AD, the
Visigoths wiped out an entire Roman army including the Roman Emperor
Valens. In 410 AD, they ravaged Rome, the first time that anyone had done so in


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 63 of 379
800 years. In 455 AD, the Vandals ransacked Rome for a second time. They
‘vandalized’ the city for two weeks, systematically and persistently looting
everything of value they could lay their hands on. They carried off to Carthage
the solid-gold seven branched lampstand, the very one that in 70 AD, Titus had
carried off to Rome from the temple in Jerusalem. Genseric, the leader of the
Vandals was a human predator.
The Roman Empire persecuted the Jews, and Christians such as Ignatius and
Polycarp as well as well as heretical Christians such as the Arians. Therefore,
when the second trumpet blew, God came in judgment against Rome.
The Barbarians destroyed the routes of commerce, decimated the cities and
sacked Rome so that Rome became practically a ghost town.




    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 64 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                           BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


            CHAPTER 4: THE THIRD TRUMPET

Revelation 8:10
“Then the third angel sounded: And a great star fell from heaven, burning like a
torch; and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water. The name of
the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters became wormwood, and many men
died from the water, because it was made bitter.”

The Historical Context

There can be little doubt that the ‘falling star’ of the third trumpet refers in a
primary sense to Satan. Yet this star cannot refer to the original fall of Satan from
heaven because that happened before creation week. Furthermore, it cannot
refer to him falling from heaven at the cross (John 12:31-33; Luke 10:18) either
because the events of the third trumpet transpire well into the Christian era
after the fall of Jerusalem (first trumpet) and the fall of the Roman Empire
(second trumpet).
Though this trumpet cannot refer primarily to the fall of Satan from heaven at
the beginning or at the cross, nevertheless the language is very reminiscent of


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 65 of 379
the fall of Lucifer from heaven as described in Isaiah 14:12-14 and Revelation
12:7-9.
The terminological links between the third trumpet and Isaiah 14 and
Revelation 12 leave little doubt that the fall of Satan stands in the background
of the third trumpet. Satan, the star of the morning, who was originally perfect,
apostatized and became a fallen star. He then defiled and poisoned Adam and
Eve with his specious teachings and through them, the entire human race. The
result was that the entire race came under the sentence of death (Genesis 3:1-
6, 19).
The fall of this star portrays the great apostasy that defiled the church from
within when Papal Rome rose to power from the shambles that the barbarians
left in the Roman Empire.
The crucial question is this: what principle allows us to say that the fallen star
represents Satan, as well as the fall of Papal Rome? The answer is threefold.
    In the first place, what the Bible attributes to Satan he actually
     accomplishes through human apostate powers. Revelation 12:4 tells us
     that the dragon stood next to the woman to devour her child as soon as it
     was born. Satan did not do this personally but rather through his emissary,
     Herod. Thus, Ellen White is correct when she wrote:
      “Thus while the dragon, primarily, represents Satan, it is, in a secondary
      sense, a symbol of pagan Rome.” GC, p. 438
      Likewise, when pagan Rome gave its throne to the papacy, Ellen White
      described it as the dragon giving the papacy its throne:
     “In the sixth century the papacy had become firmly established. Its seat of
      power was fixed in the imperial city, and the bishop of Rome was declared
     the head over the entire church. Paganism had given place to the
      papacy. The dragon had given to the beast “his power, and his seat, and
      great authority.” [Revelation 13:2].” GC, p. 54

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 66 of 379
     At the end of time, Ellen White uses the words ‘dragon’ and ‘kings’
     interchangeably:

      “Kings and rulers and governors have placed the brand of antichrist upon
      themselves and are represented as the dragon who goes to make war with
      the saints--with those who keep the commandments of God and who have the
      faith of Jesus.” TM, p. 39
   Secondly, Daniel 7 and Revelation 13 tell us that the little horn/beast
    persecuted the saints for 3.5 times or 42 months. However, Revelation 12
    presents a parallel, but different picture. The text tells us that the work
    of persecution was the work of the dragon for 3.5 or 1260 days
    (Revelation 12:6, 13-14). Thus, when we compare Daniel 7/Revelation 13
    with Revelation 12 we find that Satan ruled during the 1260 years through
    his emissary, the Bishop of Rome.
   Third, 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4 explicitly tells us that the man of sin would
    exalt himself to the height of God even to the point of sitting in the temple
    of God claiming to be God. The language is quite similar to what Satan
    attempted to do at the very beginning when he was cast out of heaven
    (Isaiah 14:12-14). In fact, the text tells us that Satan would energize the
    man of sin (2Thessalonians 2:9).
The backdrop to the idea expressed above is that Satan does not accomplish his
work in person but rather through his seed or body. What he was not able to
accomplish in heaven he does on earth through his vice-gerent. As Christ works
through His seed or body to accomplish His purposes on earth, so does Satan.

Satan’s Vice-regent

On the Mount of Temptation Satan attempted to recruit Jesus as his vice-
gerent by offering him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. Jesus
rejected the offer. However, in the fourth century, Satan offered those same
kingdoms to the Bishop of Rome and he accepted the offer. Thus, when the

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 67 of 379
papacy accepted the kingdoms of the world with all their attending glory, it
became the vice-gerent of Satan to do his bidding on earth. Satan does not
accomplish his purposes directly but rather by his alter ego or other self. Notice
how Ellen White describes this:
“There is one pointed out in prophecy as the man of sin. He is the representative
of Satan. Taking the suggestions of Satan concerning the law of God, which is as
unchangeable as His throne, this man of sin comes in and represents to the world
that he has changed that law, and that the first day of the week instead of the
seventh is now the Sabbath. Professing infallibility, he claims the right to change
the law of God to suit his own purposes.” 7BC p. 910
“This compromise between paganism and Christianity [in the days of
Constantine] resulted in the development of the man of sin foretold in prophecy as
opposing and exalting himself above God. That gigantic system of false religion
is a masterpiece of Satan's power—a monument of his efforts to seat himself
upon the throne to rule the earth according to his will.
“To secure worldly gains and honors, the church was led to seek the favor and
support of the great men of earth, and having thus rejected Christ, she was induced
to yield allegiance to the representative of Satan—the Bishop of Rome.” SR p.
327

Pagan and Papal Rome

It is important to take into account the chronological sequence of the second
and third trumpets. As we have already studied, Satan’s throne was originally in
Pagan Rome and then his throne was transferred via the church of Pergamum
to Papal Rome in 538 AD (Revelation 2:13; 13:2)
In all the great lines of prophecy pagan Rome is always followed by papal
Rome. This is true of Daniel 2 (the amalgamation of the iron and clay in the feet
follows the iron legs). In Daniel 7 the dragon beast sprouts ten horns and then
is followed by the little horn (Daniel 7:23, 24). In Daniel 8, the little horn grows


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 68 of 379
horizontally (Pagan Rome) and then it grows vertically into heaven (Papal
Rome). In Revelation 12, the ten-horned dragon attempted to kill the man-child
and then the same ten-horned dragon persecuted the woman for 1260 days
(Revelation 12:1-6, 13-16). In Revelation 13:1-10 the ten-horned dragon gave
his throne, power and authority (Revelation 13:2) to the beast who then ruled
for 42 months and in 2 Thessalonians 2 the man of sin rose to power only after
the restrainer, the Roman Empire, was removed. Thus, if the second trumpet
represents the fall of the Roman Empire it stands to reason that the next trumpet
would be the apostasy that followed.
The prophecy of Daniel 7 leaves no doubt that after the ten horns devastated the
Roman Empire another power would arise to subdue and defile them.
2Thessalonians explains that after the removal of the restrainer by the ten
horns (the barbarian tribes) the man of sin would reveal himself sitting in the
temple of God (the church) showing himself that he is God much like Satan
intended to do when He fell from heaven and said: ‘I will be like the Most High.’

The Perspective of 2Thessalonians 2

At this point, we must discuss the meaning of the apostasy, the temple of God
and the Son of perdition in 2Thessalonians 2:3, 4. The word ‘apostasy’ has the
definite article so Paul was not referring to an apostasy but rather THE apostasy.
In his writings, the apostle Paul always identifies the temple of God with the
church (Ephesians 2:19-21; 1Corinthians 3:16, 17; 1Corinthians 6:19, 20).
John 17:12 calls Judas by the identical name as the man of sin, ‘the Son of
Perdition’. Judas was an insider who feigned loyalty to Christ but secretly
betrayed Him with a kiss. These three expressions in 1Thessalonians 2 (‘the
apostasy’, ‘the temple of God’, and ‘the Son of Perdition’) clearly indicate that an
enemy from within would defile and poison the church.




    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 69 of 379
2 Thessalonians 2:6, 7 describes the ‘restrainer’ with both the masculine and
neuter genders. First, Paul tells the Thessalonians: ‘you know what is holding
back’ and then he refers to, ‘he who holds back will be taken out of the way.’
In Romans 13:1-10, we see a similar phenomenon. Paul begins by telling the
Romans to subject themselves to the governing authorities (plural) (verses 1-
3). Then in verse 4, he uses the masculine singular ‘he’ to refer to the individual
rulers (verse 4). It is very clear that the ‘he’ here does not refer to a particular
person but rather to whoever is ruling the civil power of Rome at any given
moment.
Cardinal Edward Manning describes the power that ruled after the removal of
the Roman restrainer:
“Now the abandonment of Rome was the liberation of the pontiffs. Whatsoever
claims to obedience the emperors may have made, and whatsoever compliance the
Pontiff may have yielded, the whole previous relation, anomalous, and annulled
again and again by the vices and outrages of the emperors, was finally dissolved by
a higher power. The providence of God permitted a succession of irruptions,
Gothic, Lombard, and Hungarian, to desolate Italy, and to efface from it every
remnant of the empire. The pontiffs found themselves alone, the sole fountains of
order, peace, law, and safety. And from the hour of this providential liberation,
when, by a divine intervention, the chains fell off from the hands of the successor
of St. Peter, as once before from his own, no sovereign has ever reigned in Rome
except the Vicar of Jesus Christ.” (Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of
the Vicar of Jesus Christ, Preface, pp. xxviii, xxix. London: Burns and Lambert, 1862).
I am sure that Manning did not realize that his remarks indicted the papacy.
History proves that the removal of the Roman Empire did indeed lead to the
‘liberation’ of the Roman Pontiff. It is noteworthy that Manning describes the
fall of the Roman Empire as ‘chains falling off the hands of the successor of St.
Peter’. From Manning’s own words, we can conclude that the fall of the Roman
Empire removed the chains that restrained the Bishop of Rome.


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 70 of 379
The early church Fathers were unanimous in the opinion that the ‘restrainer’
was a reference to the Roman Empire in general and to the individual
emperors in particular. Paul made it clear that the Church at Thessalonica
knew the identity of the restrainer. However, Paul wrote in veiled language.
Why? The answer is that he could not speak openly about the fall of the Empire
that was ruling in his day. If he had publicly stated that the Roman Empire would
be ‘taken out of the way’, the emperors would have had grounds to condemn him
for sedition against the Roman government. Therefore, Paul had to be cautious.
If the restrainer was the Holy Spirit, as many futurists believe, why was Paul so
cautious? Saying that the restrainer was the Holy Spirit would not be
controversial at all. It is clear that Paul could not openly identify the
‘restrainer”. It was not necessary for him to do so because the Thessalonians
already knew who the restrainer was.
Let us turn to the writings of the early church Fathers to see how they
understood the restrainer.
Tertullian (160-240 AD):
“For the mystery of iniquity doth already work; only he who now hinders must
hinder, until he be taken out of the way.” What obstacle is there but the Roman
state, the falling away of which, by being scattered into ten kingdoms, shall
introduce Antichrist upon (its own ruins)? “And then shall be revealed the wicked
one.” “On the Resurrection of the Flesh,” chapter 24; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. III,
p. 563 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1908].
“The very end of all things threatening dreadful woes is only retarded by the
continued existence of the Roman Empire.” (“Apology,” chapter 32; Ante-Nicene
Fathers, Vol. III, p. 43)




    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 71 of 379
Lactantius (early fourth century)
“The subject itself declares that the fall and ruin of the world will shortly take place;
except that while the city of Rome remains, it appears that nothing of this kind is
to be feared. However, when that capital of the world shall have fallen, and shall
have begun to be a street, which the Sibyls say shall come to pass, who can doubt
that the end has now arrived to the affairs of men and the whole world? It is that
city, that only, which still sustains all things.” (“The Divine Institutes,” book 7,
chapter 25; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. VII, p. 220)
Cyril of Jerusalem (318-386 AD):
“But this aforesaid Antichrist is to come when the times of the Roman Empire
shall have been fulfilled, and the end of the world is drawing near. There shall
rise up together ten kings of the Romans, reigning in different parts perhaps, but
all about the same time; and after those an eleventh, the Antichrist, who by his
magical craft shall seize upon the Roman power; and of the kings who reigned
before him, ‘three he shall humble,’ and the remaining seven he shall keep in
subjection to himself.” (“Catechetical Lectures,” section 15, on II Thessalonians 2:4;
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. VII, p. 108 [New York: The Christian Literature
Company, 1895]).
Ambrose (died in 398):
“After the falling or decay of the Roman Empire, Antichrist shall appear.”
(Quoted in, Bishop Thomas Newton, Dissertations on the Prophecies, p. 463
[London: B. Blake, 1840])
Chrysostom (died in 407):
“When the Roman Empire is taken out of the way, then he [the Antichrist] shall
come. And naturally. For as long as the fear of this empire lasts, no one will willingly
exalt himself, but when that is dissolved, he will attack the anarchy, and endeavor
to seize upon the government both of man and of God.” “Homily IV on 2



    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 72 of 379
Thessalonians 2:6-9,” Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. XIII, p. 389 [New York:
Charles Scribner’s and Sons, 1905].
Jerome (died 420):
“He that letteth is taken out of the way, and yet we do not realize that Antichrist
is near.” (Letter to Ageruchia, written about 409 A. D. Letter 123, section 16;
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. VI, p. 236 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
1912]).
Ellen G. White has some interesting statements regarding the restrainer both in
history and in prophecy:
“The spirit of compromise and conformity [of the early Christian church] was
restrained for a time by the fierce persecutions which the church endured under
paganism. But as persecution ceased, and Christianity entered the courts and
palaces of kings, she laid aside the humble simplicity of Christ and His apostles for
the pomp and pride of pagan priests and rulers; and in place of the requirements
of God, she substituted human theories and traditions.” GC p. 49.
“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and
Rome be reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of
her tyranny and persecution.” GC p. 564.
“The vast empire of Rome crumbled to pieces, and from its ruins rose that mighty
power, the Roman Catholic Church. This church boasts of her infallibility and her
hereditary religion.” 1MR p. 50

The Falling Star

The third trumpet describes the star that fell from heaven as a burning lamp.
Therefore, we must not only discover the meaning of the word ‘star’ but also of
the expression, ‘burning lamp’.
As we have seen, in the first instance, the falling star represents Satan. Several
texts of Scripture make this clear.

    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 73 of 379
Isaiah 14:12-14
"How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are
cut down to the ground, you who weakened the nations! 13 For you have said
in your heart: 'I will ascend into heaven; I will exalt my throne above the stars
of God; I will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest sides of the
north; 14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most
High.'

Revelation 12:7-9
“And war broke out in heaven: Michael and his angels fought with the dragon;
and the dragon and his angels fought, 8 but they did not prevail, nor was a place
found for them in heaven any longer. 9 So the great dragon was cast out, that
serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was
cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.”
Luke 10:18: Jesus compared Satan and his angels with flashes of lightning,
serpents and scorpions:
“Then the seventy returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject
to us in Your name." 18 And He said to them, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from
heaven. 19 Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and
scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means
hurt you.”
Ezekiel 1:13, 14 compares the angels to lamps or torches that flash like
lighting:
“As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning
coals of fire, like the appearance of torches going back and forth among the
living creatures. The fire was bright, and out of the fire went lightning. 14 And the
living creatures ran back and forth, in appearance like a flash of lightning.”



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 74 of 379
As we have already seen, however, the star that falls from heaven at this point
cannot directly represent Satan because he had already fallen long before both
from heaven and at the cross. Then star then must represent something that
came later.
Stars do not only represent angels in the Bible. They frequently also represent
God’s people who are agents of God in preaching the pure gospel.
In Revelation 1:20 the seven stars in the right hand of Jesus represent the
messengers or pastors to the seven churches.
“The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in My right hand, and the seven
golden lampstands: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and
the seven lampstands which you saw are the seven churches.”
The seven stars in the right hand of Jesus represents the fact that He directs
the work of these messengers. The seven churches represent seven
consecutive eras of church history so the seven stars must represent the
messengers or pastors that proclaim God’s message to the church in each of
those eras. That is to say, each of the seven churches has one star and each of
those stars represents the religious leaders of the particular era represented
by that church. These preachers were to keep the truth of the pure gospel
alive.
In Revelation 12:1, the twelve stars on the crown of the woman represent the
twelve apostles of the lamb who taught the truth as it is in Jesus. In Zechariah
9:16 the prophet saw the final remnant under a symbol of stars on a crown of
glory. In Daniel 8:10, 24 the little horn cast down the stars which represents
the fact that he persecuted and killed those who taught righteousness during
the 1260 years (see Daniel 11: 33-36). Daniel 12:3 tells us that the wise will
shine as stars forever and ever.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 75 of 379
Ellen White presents this interesting portrayal of Revelation’s seven stars:
"These things saith He that holdeth the seven stars in His right hand." Revelation
2:1. These words are spoken to the teachers in the church—those entrusted by
God with weighty responsibilities. The sweet influences that are to be abundant
in the church are bound up with God's ministers, who are to reveal the love of
Christ. The stars of heaven are under His control. He fills them with light. He
guides and directs their movements. If He did not do this, they would become
fallen stars. So with His ministers. They are but instruments in His hands, and
all the good they accomplish is done through His power. Through them His light
is to shine forth. The Savior is to be their efficiency. If they will look to Him as He
looked to the Father they will be enabled to do His work. As they make God their
dependence, He will give them His brightness to reflect to the world.” AA pp. 586,
587
When the stars cease preaching the gospel and preach human tradition, they
become fallen stars.

Positive Side of the Burning Lamp

The word ‘lamp’ (lampades) in Revelation 8:8 refers to a burning torch. John
18:3 uses the identical word to describe the Pharisees who came with torches
to arrest Jesus. Acts 20:8 describes the torches that provided light where the
apostle Paul was preaching at night.
Scripture not only compares God’s people to stars but also to lamps or torches
that shed God’s light upon a world in darkness.
Isaiah 62:1, 2: The righteous are like a lamp that shines in the midst of
darkness:
“For Zion's sake I will not hold My peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest,
until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a lamp
that burns. 2 The Gentiles shall see your righteousness, and all kings your glory.
You shall be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord will name.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 76 of 379
2 Corinthians 4:5, 6: The preaching of the gospel is like a light shining in
darkness:
“For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your
bondservants for Jesus' sake. 6 For it is the God who commanded light to shine
out of darkness, who has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge
of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.”
Matthew 5:14-16: The word ‘lamp’ here is luchnos God called His people to be
lamps in a world of darkness:
"You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. 15 Nor
do they light a lamp [lúchnon] and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand
[lúchnia], and it gives light [lámpo] to all who are in the house. 16 Let your light
so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father
in heaven.”
Matthew 25:1-10 uses the word lampades for the lamps of the ten virgins:
"Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps
and went out to meet the bridegroom. 2 Now five of them were wise, and five were
foolish. 3 Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them, 4 but
the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. 5 However, while the
bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept. 6 "And at midnight a cry
was heard: 'Behold, the bridegroom is coming; go out to meet him!' 7 Then all
those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. 8 And the foolish said to the wise,
'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.' 9 However, the wise
answered, saying, 'No, lest there should not be enough for us and you; but go
rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.' 10 And while they went to buy,
the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding;
and the door was shut.”




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 77 of 379
The passage describes God’s people as illuminating the way to the
bridegroom’s chamber for the wedding. The idea in this parable is that human
beings shed light like a lamp.
Ellen White makes this enlightening statement about the meaning of the lamps:
“So the followers of Christ are to shed light into the darkness of the world.
Through the Holy Spirit, God's word is a light as it becomes a transforming
power in the life of the receiver. By implanting in their hearts the principles of His
word, the Holy Spirit develops in men the attributes of God. The light of His glory—
His character—is to shine forth in His followers. Thus they are to glorify God, to
lighten the path to the Bridegroom's home, to the city of God, to the marriage
supper of the Lamb.” COL, p. 414
Revelation 4:5: This verse uses the word lampades to describe the seven lamps
of fire that symbolize the seven churches empowered by the Holy Spirit to
impart light:
“And from the throne proceeded lightnings, thunderings, and voices. Seven lamps
[lampades] of fire were burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits
of God.”

Psalm 119:105. The Old Testament Scriptures are also a lesser light or lamp
because they give witness to Jesus:
“Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.”
John 5:35 describes John the Baptist as a shining lamp who gave witness to
Jesus. Although the Greek word here is luchnos and not lampades, the meaning
is synonymous. In Revelation and in this text the words ‘burning’ and ‘lamp’ are
used.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 78 of 379
Ellen White wrote this counsel to the youth of the church:

“You are God's light-bearer. He has placed in your hands a lamp that you are to
keep trimmed and burning for him.” YI, June 12, 1902

Negative Side of the Fallen Burning Lamp

Revelation 8:10 indicates that the ministers and teachers (the angel or star
of the church of this period) of the church were supposed to shine as a lamp.
Instead, they fell from their post and defiled the waters.
The same happened with them as with Lucifer. Lucifer was originally loyal to
God. Ellen White describes him:
“Satan had been Lucifer, the light-bearer, the sharer of God's glory in heaven.”
Bible Echo, November 1, 1892
Before sin, Lucifer was the light bearer, a shining star, like a lamp that
brought glory to God. However, when he became proud and sought to bring
glory to himself, he defiled and embittered the angels with false accusations
against God. As a result, he fell from heaven and he became a fallen star or
lamp.
Something similar occurred in the Apostolic Church. Originally, it reflected the
purity of the gospel of Jesus. However, in the course of time it fell into
apostasy, poisoned the pure waters of the gospel, and brought in spiritual
death.
Proverbs 13:9 describes the wicked going out like a lamp:
“The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked will be put out.”
Jude 11-13 describes wandering stars that have no anchor and compares
them to three notable apostates in the Old Testament, Cain, Korah and Balaam:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 79 of 379
“Woe to them! For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the
error of Balaam for profit, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. 12 These are
spots in your love feasts, while they feast with you without fear, serving only
themselves. They are clouds without water, carried about by the winds; late
autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, pulled up by the roots; 13 raging waves of
the sea, foaming up their own shame; wandering stars for whom is reserved the
blackness of darkness forever.”
In contrast to the falling star, in those who study prophecy the Morning Star
rises in their hearts (2Peter 1:19, 20). Thus, the rising star stands in contrast
to the falling star.

The act of falling represents apostasy

Several texts use the word “fall” to describe apostasy.
Isaiah 14:12: Lucifer became a fallen star because he did not ‘stand’ in the truth
(see John 8:44):
"How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are
cut down to the ground, you who weakened the nations!”
Revelation 2:5: Jesus warned the apostolic church about the danger of falling.
Notice that this text contains the concept of ‘falling’ along with ‘lampstand’:
“Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent and do the first works,
or else I will come to you quickly and remove your lampstand from its place —
unless you repent.”
Romans 11:11
“I say then, have they [the Jews] stumbled that they should fall? Certainly not!
Rather, through their fall, to provoke them to jealousy, salvation has come to the
Gentiles.”




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 80 of 379
1 Corinthians 10:12
“Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.”
Hebrews 4:11
“Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall according to the
same example of disobedience.”
Elsewhere in the book of Revelation, the word ‘fall’ describes the apostasy of
end time Babylon.
Revelation 14:8
“And another angel followed, saying, "Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city,
because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her
fornication."
Revelation 18:2
“After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great
authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory. 2 And he cried mightily
with a loud voice, saying, "Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and has become
a dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit, and a cage for every
unclean and hated bird!”
It bears repeating that it is impossible to fall unless the person has stood first.
This means that the church during this period originally stood in the truth, but
like Lucifer, she then fell into apostasy.

Rivers and springs of Water

The fountains of waters are different from the raging waters of the sea (Isaiah
17:12, 13). The fountains of waters are life giving waters that refresh, restore
and perpetuate physical and spiritual life. To us in the western world, waters
do not mean as much as in Israel in Bible times. We just turn on the faucet and



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 81 of 379
water flows. However, in Israel, water was a precious commodity the scarcity
of which represented death, and its presence life.
Psalm 23:2, 3: When the Good Shepherd leads us beside still waters He
restores our soul [life]:
“The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. 2 He makes me to lie down in green
pastures; He leads me beside the still waters. 3 He restores my soul; He leads
me in the paths of righteousness for His name's sake.”
Deuteronomy 8:7-10: Springs of waters represent a life of fruitfulness and
abundant prosperity:
“For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of
water, of fountains and springs, that flow out of valleys and hills; 8 a land of
wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil
and honey; 9 a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you
will lack nothing; a land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you can dig
copper. 10 When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the Lord your
God for the good land which He has given you.”
Revelation 7:17: In the kingdom, God will lead His people to drink from
springs of waters and they will thirst no more:
“They shall neither hunger anymore nor thirst anymore; the sun shall not strike
them, nor any heat; 17 for the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd
them and lead them to living fountains of waters. And God will wipe away every
tear from their eyes."
Revelation 21:6; 22:17: Jesus will give His people living waters:
“And He said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and
the End. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts.”
Psalm 1:3: The righteous are like a tree planted next to streams of living
waters. They drink the water and bear fruit in its season.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 82 of 379
“He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit
in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither; and whatever he does shall
prosper.”
Proverbs 13:14: The teaching of the wise is as a fountain of life.
“The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to turn one away from the snares of
death.”
Proverbs 14:27: The fear of the Lord is as a fountain of life. The fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom and it means to depart from evil.
“The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to turn one away from the snares of
death.”
Exodus 17:1-8 and Numbers 20:8-11 describe two ‘rock episodes’ in the trek
of Israel across the wilderness. The Rock is a symbol of Christ (1Corinthians
10:4), the rod that struck the rock represents the Father’s judgment that fell
upon Jesus and the water that flowed from the Rock represents the Holy Spirit
(1Corinthians 12 :13; John 4:13, 14; 7:37-39). Notably, when people drink from
the Rock, they in turn become living fountains to others.
John 4:13, 14
“Jesus answered and said to her, "Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again
14 but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the

water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up
into everlasting life."
John 7:37-39
“On the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, "If
anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink. 38 He who believes in Me, as the
Scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water." 39 But this
He spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in Him would receive; for
the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. “

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 83 of 379
When we drink of the living waters, we become fountains of water. The
springs of waters represent the pure gospel of Jesus that flows through His
people through the power of the Holy Spirit to bless the world with life
everlasting.
“The people of God, His chosen kingdom, are not as a stagnant pool. They are as
a river, constantly flowing, and as it advances, becoming deeper and wider, until
its life-giving waters are spread over all the earth. Whenever the gospel of God
is received, its grace heals the maladies that sin has produced. The Sun of
Righteousness arises with healing in His beams. Light, strength, and refreshing
come from the Lord, and the good fruit borne bears witness to a work of
righteousness.” Manuscript 33, April 27, 1903, ‘God's Purpose for His Church.’ UL
p. 131
“The heart that receives the word of God is not as a pool that evaporates, not
like a broken cistern that loses its treasure. It is like the mountain stream, fed
by unfailing springs, whose cool, sparkling waters leap from rock to rock,
refreshing the weary, the thirsty, the heavy-laden. It is like a river constantly
flowing and, as it advances, becoming deeper and wider, until its life-giving
waters are spread over all the earth. The stream that goes singing on its way
leaves behind its gift of verdure and fruitfulness. The grass on its banks is a
fresher green, the trees have a richer verdure, the flowers are more abundant.
When the earth lies bare and brown under the summer's scorching heat, a line of
verdure marks the river's course.
So it is with the true child of God. The religion of Christ reveals itself as a
vitalizing, pervading principle, a living, working, spiritual energy. When the heart
is opened to the heavenly influence of truth and love, these principles will flow
forth again like streams in the desert, causing fruitfulness to appear where now
are barrenness and dearth.” PK, pp. 233, 234
“In casting salt into the bitter spring, Elisha taught the same spiritual lesson
imparted centuries later by the Savior to His disciples when He declared, "Ye are


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 84 of 379
the salt of the earth." Matthew 5:13. The salt mingling with the polluted spring
purified its waters and brought life and blessing where before had been
blighting and death. When God compares His children to salt, He would teach
them that His purpose in making them the subjects of His grace is that they may
become agents in saving others.” PK, p. 231

Wormwood and Apostasy

Deuteronomy 29:17, 18: Gall and wormwood describe the terrible
consequences that would ensue if Israel drank from the polluted waters of
apostasy.
“. . .and you saw their abominations and their idols which were among them [the
Canaanites] — wood and stone and silver and gold; 18 so that there may not be
among you man or woman or family or tribe, whose heart turns away today
from the Lord our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations, and that there
may not be among you a root bearing bitterness or wormwood. . .”
Amos 5:7: When righteousness in the earth is forsaken, the result is
wormwood:
“You who turn justice to wormwood, and lay righteousness to rest in the earth!"
Amos 6:12, 13: When justice and righteousness are forsaken, the result is
wormwood and gall:
“Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? Yet you have turned
justice into gall, and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood.”
Jeremiah 23:15, 16: When false prophets speak in name of God, the result is
wormwood and gall:
"Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets: 'Behold, I will
feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the water of gall; for
[because] from the prophets of Jerusalem profaneness has gone out into all the
land.' "Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Do not listen to the words of the prophets

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 85 of 379
who prophesy to you. They make you worthless; they speak a vision of their own
heart, not from the mouth of the LORD.”
Jeremiah 23:36
"And the oracle of the LORD you shall mention no more. For every man's word will
be his oracle, for you have perverted the words of the living God, the LORD of
hosts our God.”
Jeremiah 9:13-15
“And the Lord said, "Because they have forsaken My law which I set before them,
and have not obeyed My voice, nor walked according to it, 14 but they have walked
according to the dictates of their own hearts and after the Baals, which their
fathers taught them," 15 therefore thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel:
"Behold, I will feed them, this people, with wormwood, and give them water of
gall to drink.”
When Israel forsook the law of God, disobeyed God, and walked after their own
hearts the Lord fed them with wormwood and gave them gall to drink.
Proverbs 5:3-5, 15
“For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey, and her mouth is smoother than
oil; 4 But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. 5
Her feet go down to death, her steps lay hold of hell. . . 15 Drink water from your
own cistern, and running water from your own well.”
God counseled His people not to go after an adulterer woman but rather to be
satisfied with drinking from their own wellspring. He told his people that to
seek after the strange woman would be like drinking wormwood or
bitterness.
It is no coincidence that Revelation 2 compares the apostate papal church with
the adulterer woman Jezebel, who led God’s people into fornication and



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 86 of 379
idolatry. Thus, the literal counsel of Proverbs applies equally in a spiritual sense
to the great harlot of Revelation 17.

The Defiled Waters

The rivers and springs of water must have been clean before the fall of the
star defiled them. This is another indication that the third trumpet’s theme is
apostasy in the church. When the star falls, it pollutes the fountains of
waters with wormwood and bitterness and many people die.
If the pure spring waters represent the Word of God imparted to man through
the instrumentality of the Holy Spirit then the defiling of the waters would
mean the corruption of the Word of God.
By speaking about a falling star and the poisoning of the fresh spring waters,
God through John is showing that the third trumpet is dealing with apostasy.
Both the falling star and wormwood refer directly to apostasy so the third
trumpet must center on apostasy. This is precisely what happened with the rise
of the papacy in 2 Thessalonians 2 after the fall of the Roman Empire (see Daniel
7 and Revelation 13).
The waters represent the Holy Spirit flowing from Jesus through His church
to the world. However, when a false gospel defiled the living waters preached
by the fallen teachers of the papal church, people began to die spiritually.
John 7:37-39 refers to drinking the pure spring water that flows from Jesus
through the Holy Spirit in the Word. However, if we drink from the defiled
waters, this not only poisons us but it also poisons others who drink from the
waters from which we drank. Woe to us if Satan defiles the waters we receive
from Jesus by accepting the traditions and sophistries of men.
Proverbs 25:25, 26 A man who gives in to idolatry becomes a polluted spring:
“As cold water to a weary soul so is good news from a far country. 26 A righteous
man who falters before the wicked is like a murky spring and a polluted well.”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 87 of 379
Jeremiah 2:13: God’s people preferred the broken cisterns to the fountains of
living waters.
“For My people have committed two evils: They have forsaken Me, the fountain
of living waters, and hewn themselves cisterns — broken cisterns that can hold
no water.”
Jeremiah 6:7: When religious leaders preach a false gospel, the waters are
polluted and poisoned:
“For thus has the Lord of hosts said: ‘Cut down trees, and build a mound against
Jerusalem. This is the city to be punished. She is full of oppression in her midst. 7
As a fountain wells up with water, so she wells up with her wickedness. Violence
and plundering are heard in her. Before Me continually are grief and wounds.”
Acts 8:21-23: Peter described Simon Magus as filled with bitterness because
he had covetousness of his heart:
“But Peter said to him, "Your money perish with you, because you thought that
the gift of God could be purchased with money! 21 You have neither part nor
portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God. 22 Repent
therefore of this your wickedness, and pray God if perhaps the thought of your
heart may be forgiven you. 23 For I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and
bound by iniquity."
2Kings 2:19-22: Salt cleanses the polluted waters of Jericho that brought
about death:
“Then the men of the city said to Elisha, "Please notice, the situation of this city is
pleasant, as my lord sees; but the water is bad, and the ground barren." 20 And
he said, "Bring me a new bowl, and put salt in it." So they brought it to him. 21
Then he went out to the source of the water, and cast in the salt there, and said,
"Thus says the Lord: 'I have healed this water; from it there shall be no more
death or barrenness.'" 22 So the water remains healed to this day, according to
the word of Elisha which he spoke.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 88 of 379
“In casting salt into the bitter spring, Elisha taught the same spiritual lesson
imparted centuries later by the Savior to His disciples when He declared, "Ye are
the salt of the earth." Matthew 5:13. The salt mingling with the polluted spring
purified its waters and brought life and blessing where before had been
blighting and death. When God compares His children to salt, He would teach
them that, His purpose in making them the subjects of His grace is that they may
become agents in saving others. The object of God in choosing a people before
all the world was not only that He might adopt them as His sons and daughters,
but that through them the world might receive the grace that bringeth
salvation. When the Lord chose Abraham, it was not simply to be the special friend
of God, but to be a medium of the peculiar privileges the Lord desired to bestow
upon the nations. PK, pp. 231, 232

2 Peter 2:18-22
“These are wells without water, clouds carried by a tempest, for whom is
reserved the blackness of darkness forever. For when they speak great swelling
words of emptiness, they allure through the lusts of the flesh, through lewdness,
the ones who have actually escaped from those who live in error. 19 While they
promise them liberty, they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by whom a
person is overcome, by him also he is brought into bondage. 20 For if, after they
have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the
latter end is worse for them than the beginning. 21 For it would have been better
for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than having known it, to
turn from the holy commandment delivered to them. 22 However, it has happened
to them according to the true proverb: "A dog returns to his own vomit," and, "a
sow, having washed, to her wallowing in the mire."

Edwin Thiele and Ellen White

Dr. Edwin Thiele explained the meaning of the polluted waters during the
period of the third trumpet:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 89 of 379
“Here a remarkable, revolutionary transformation is depicted. The once pure,
life-giving fountains become contaminated and corrupt as the death-star
Wormwood falls upon them, and henceforth men die rather than live as they
partake of the polluted waters. The pure church is a clear stream and a life-
giving fountain. When the enemy enters the church, it becomes corrupt.
Henceforth it is a scourge rather than a blessing to men. Satan rather than
Christ is in control, and the church is to take complete control, a savor of death
unto death instead of life unto life.” (Edwin Thiele, Outline Studies in Revelation,
pp. 293, 294.
Ellen White also explained the meaning of the corrupted springs of water:
“The world needs evidences of sincere Christianity. The poison of sin is at work
at the heart of society. Cities and towns are steeped in sin and moral corruption.
The world is full of sickness, suffering, and iniquity. Nigh and afar off are souls in
poverty and distress, weighed down with a sense of guilt and perishing for want
of a saving influence. The gospel of truth is kept ever before them, yet they perish
because the example of those who should be a savor of life to them is a savor of
death. Their souls drink in bitterness because the springs are poisoned, when
they should be like a well of water springing up unto everlasting life.” PK p. 232
“In unfolding the sins of his life to a priest—an erring, sinful mortal, and too often
corrupted with wine and licentiousness—his standard of character is lowered,
and he is defiled in consequence. His thought of God is degraded to the likeness of
fallen humanity, for the priest stands as a representative of God. This degrading
confession of man to man is the secret spring from which has flowed much of the
evil that is defiling the world and fitting it for the final destruction.” GC p. 567
“The priests and rulers, the scribes and Pharisees, destroyed the living pastures,
and defiled the wellsprings of the water of life.” DA p. 478
“Satan was seeking to corrupt the doctrines of the Bible. I saw that at last the
standard was lowered and that the heathen were uniting with the Christians.
Although these worshipers of idols professed to be converted, they brought their

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 90 of 379
idolatry with them into the church, only changing the objects of their worship
to images of saints, and even of Christ and of Mary His mother. As the followers of
Christ gradually united with them, the Christian religion became corrupted and
the church lost its purity and power.” EW p. 211
“The Bible is the great educator; for it is not possible prayerfully to study its
sacred pages without having the intellect disciplined, ennobled, purified, and
refined. . . Those who claim to be Christians, who profess to believe the truth, and
yet drink at the polluted fountains of infidelity, and by precept and example
draw others away from the cold, snow-waters of Lebanon, are fools, though they
profess themselves to be wise.” Counsels on Education p. 103
“Men who turn away from the knowledge of God, have placed their minds
under the control of their master, Satan, and he trains them to be his servants.
The less the productions expressing infidel views are brought before the youth,
the better. Evil angels are ever on the alert that they may exalt before the minds
of the youth that which will do them injury; and as books expressing infidel and
pagan sentiments are read, these unseen agents of evil seek to impress those who
study them with the spirit of questioning and unbelief. Those who drink from
these polluted channels do not thirst for the waters of life; for they are satisfied
with the broken cisterns of the world.” CE p. 100
“A succession of showers from the living waters has come to you at Battle Creek.
Each shower was a consecrated inflowing of divine influence; but you did not
recognize it as such. Instead of drinking copiously of the streams of salvation
so freely offered through the influence of the Holy Spirit, you turned to satisfy
your soul thirst with the polluted waters of human science.” CT pp. 358, 359
“We cannot be complete in Christ and yet be ready to grasp those things that come
from the so-called great men of the earth, and place their wisdom before the
wisdom of the greatest Teacher the world has ever known. To seek knowledge
from such sources is represented in the word as seeking to drink from broken
cisterns that can hold no water. Let the truth of God be the subject for


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 91 of 379
contemplation and meditation. Read the Bible, and regard it as the voice of God
speaking directly to you. Then will you find inspiration and that wisdom which is
divine.” 7T pp. 204, 205.
“It seems wonderfully strange to me, considering all I have written in regard to
the reading of exciting stories, to see a recommendation from your pen to read
Robinson Crusoe, Uncle Tom's Cabin, and Aesop's Fables. My brother, you made a
mistake in writing that article. If these books are among those that you have for
sale, I beg of you never to offer them again to our youth. It is your duty to call
their attention to the Bible; do not become their tempter by offering to them
attractive storybooks, which will divert their minds from the study of the
Scriptures. We must ourselves be drinking of the water of life, or else we will
be constantly hewing out for ourselves broken cisterns which can hold no water.”
5T p. 519

Jon Paulien Summarizes the Third Trumpet

“There are really three objects of judgment in the third trumpet: the star, the
springs and rivers, and the people who drink the water. In a sense, each phrase
of this three-fold judgment is the catalyst for the next. It is because the star falls
that the rivers and springs are turned into wormwood. The bitterness of these
waters leads, in turn, to the death of those who drink the water.” Jon Paulien,
Allusions, Exegetical Method, and the Intepretation of Revelation 8:7-12, Doctoral
Dissertation available in the James white Library Andrews University, p. 401.
“One would think that the removal of Rome and Judaism as effective opponents of
the church would open the way for the church’s advancement and growth.
However, John does not think in such terms. He warns, instead, that the removal
of the church’s enemies only diverts Satan’s mode of attack.” Jon Paulien,
Allusions, Exegetical Method, and the Intepretation of Revelation 8:7-12, Doctoral
Dissertation available in the James white Library Andrews University, p. 406




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 92 of 379
As we continue our study, we will see that during the fourth and fifth trumpets,
the apostasy that began in the third trumpet will intensify to an increasing
darkness that culminates in the French Revolution.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 93 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 94 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


         CHAPTER 5: THE FOURTH TRUMPET

Revelation 8:12-13
“Then the fourth angel sounded: And a third of the sun was struck, a third of the
moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them were darkened. A third of
the day did not shine, and likewise the night.”

Key Verses

Genesis 1:16
“Then God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser
light to rule the night. He made the stars also.”

Note: We shall find that the use of the words ‘greater’ and ‘lesser’ to refer to the
sun and moon are very significant.
Revelation 12:1
“Now a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the
moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars.”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 95 of 379
Note: This uses the three key words in the fourth trumpet: Sun, moon and
stars. The Sun represents the age of fulfillment. The moon represents the age
of symbols, types and shadows that pointed to the time of fulfillment. The
stars represent the founders of the Old Testament and New Testament Church.

Jesus in Person is the Greater Light

The Old Testament
Psalm 27:1: The Lord is my Light:
“The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the
strength of my life of whom shall I be afraid?”
Psalm 84:11
“For the Lord God is a sun and shield; the Lord will give grace and glory; no good
thing will He withhold from those who walk uprightly.”
Malachi 4:2
“But to you who fear My name the Sun of Righteousness shall arise with healing
in His wings; and you shall go out and grow fat like stall-fed calves.”
New Testament
John 8:12: Jesus is the light of the world:
“Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying, "I am the light of the world. He who
follows Me shall not walk in darkness, but have the light of life."
“It was morning; the sun had just risen above the Mount of Olives, and its rays
fell with dazzling brightness on the marble palaces, and lighted up the gold of
the temple walls, when Jesus, pointing to it, said, "I am the light of the world." DA
pp. 463, 464
John 9:5: Jesus is the light of the world:
“As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world."

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 96 of 379
Revelation 1:16: The face of Jesus shines like the sun:
“He had in His right hand seven stars, out of His mouth went a sharp two-edged
sword, and His countenance was like the sun shining in its strength.”
John 1:4-9: Jesus is the light of men:
“In Him was life, and the life was the light of men. 5 And the light shines in the
darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. 6 There was a man sent from
God, whose name was John. 7 This man came for a witness, to bear witness of the
Light that all through him might believe. 8 He was not that Light, but was sent
to bear witness of that Light. 9 That was the true Light which gives light to every
man coming into the world.”
Matthew 4:16: When Jesus came, the people saw a great light:
“The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat
in the region and shadow of death Light has dawned."
Luke 1:76- 79: Zechariah described the birth of Jesus as the rising of the sun:
"And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Highest; for you will go before the
face of the Lord to prepare His ways, 77 to give knowledge of salvation to His
people by the remission of their sins, 78 through the tender mercy of our God, with
which the Dayspring [literally: ‘rising sun’] from on high has visited us; 79 to
give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet
into the way of peace."
2 Corinthians 4:6: The glory of the sun shines on the face of Jesus:
“For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shone
in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of
Jesus Christ.”
1 John 1:5: God is light and there is no darkness in Him:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 97 of 379
“This is the message which we have heard from Him and declare to you, that God
is light and in Him is no darkness at all.”
1 Peter 2:9: God called His people out of darkness into His marvelous light:
“But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own
special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of
darkness into His marvelous light.”
The Spirit of Prophecy:
“God makes His sun to shine on the just and on the unjust, and this sun
represents Christ, the Sun of Righteousness, who shines as the light of the
world, giving His blessings and mercies, seen and unseen, to rich and poor alike.”
TM p. 280
Where Jesus does not shine, the people live in darkness:
“Were the Sun of Righteousness to withdraw his beams of light from the world,
we should be left in the darkness of eternal night. Jesus spake as never man spake.
He poured out to men the whole treasure of heaven in wisdom and knowledge. He
is the light that lighteth every man who cometh into the world.” CE pp. 78, 79
“We should ask the Lord to open our understanding, that we may comprehend
divine truth. If we humble our hearts before God, empty them of vanity and pride
and selfishness, through the grace abundantly bestowed upon us; if we sincerely
desire and unwaveringly believe, the bright beams of the Sun of Righteousness
will shine into our minds, and illuminate our darkened understanding. Jesus is
the Light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He is the Light of
the world, and He bids us come unto Him, and learn of Him.” FE pp. 183
“Christ makes no apology when He declares, "I am the light of the world." He was,
in life and teaching, the gospel, the foundation of all pure doctrine. Just as the
sun compares with the lesser lights in the heavens, so did Christ, the Source of
light, compare with the teachers of His day. He was before them all, and shining


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 98 of 379
with the brightness of the sun, He diffused His penetrating, gladdening rays
throughout the world. . . . TMK pp. 97

John the Baptist was a Lesser Light

John the Baptist and the Old Testament were lesser lights [represented by
the moon] whose purpose was to lead to the greater light, the person of Jesus
Christ. John the Baptist was not ‘THE’ light but he was ‘a’ light to bear witness
to THE light (John 1:6-8).
Ellen White explained the relationship between the witness of Jesus and the
witness of John:
“The prophet John was the connecting link between the two dispensations. As
God's representative, he stood forth to show the relation of the law and the
prophets to the Christian dispensation. He was the lesser light, which was to be
followed by a greater. The mind of John was illuminated by the Holy Spirit that
he might shed light upon his people; but no other light ever has shone or ever
will shine so clearly upon fallen man as that which emanated from the teaching
and example of Jesus. Christ and His mission had been but dimly understood as
typified in the shadowy sacrifices [the Old Testament]. Even John had not fully
comprehended the future, immortal life through the Savior.” DA pp. 220
“The religion of the Jews, in consequence of their departure from God, consisted
mostly in ceremony. John was the lesser light, which was to be followed by a
greater light. He was to shake the confidence of the people in their traditions,
and call their sins to their remembrance, and lead them to repentance; that they
might be prepared to appreciate the work of Christ. God communicated to John
by inspiration, illuminating the prophet that he might remove the superstition
and darkness from the minds of the honest Jews, which had been, through false
teachings for generations, gathering upon them.” RH April 8, 1873




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 99 of 379
The Scriptures and God’s People Are Lesser Lights

Isaiah 8:19-20
“And when they say to you, "Seek those who are mediums and wizards, who
whisper and mutter," should not a people seek their God? Should they seek the
dead on behalf of the living? 20 To the law [the writings of Moses] and to the
testimony! [The writings of the prophets] If they do not speak according to this
word, it is because there is no light in them.”
Psalm 119:105: The word of God is like a light
“Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.”
Micah 3:6, 7: The Word of God is light. When there is no prophetic voice, the
result is darkness.
"Therefore you shall have night without vision, and you shall have darkness
without divination; the sun shall go down on the prophets, and the day shall be
dark for them. 7 So the seers shall be ashamed, and the diviners abashed; indeed
they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer from God."
John 5:35, 36, 39, 40, 45-47: The Old Testament Scriptures are a lesser light
that lead to the Greater light, Jesus:
“He [John the Baptist] was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing
for a time to rejoice in his light. 36 But I have a greater witness than John's; for
the works which the Father has given Me to finish — the very works that I do —
bear witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me. 39 You search the Scriptures, for
in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me. 40
But you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life. 45 Do not think that
I shall accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you — Moses, in whom
you trust. 46 For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote about
Me. 47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?"



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 100 of 379
Luke 24:25-27; 44-46: The Old Testament Scriptures give witness to Jesus,
the Greater Light:
“Then He said to them, "O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the
prophets have spoken! 26 Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and
to enter into His glory?" 27 And beginning at Moses and all the Prophets, He
expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself. . . Then
He said to them, "These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with
you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the Law of Moses and
the Prophets and the Psalms concerning Me." 45 And He opened their
understanding, that they might comprehend the Scriptures.”
Not only did John give witness to Jesus but the Scriptures do as well. In this
sense, both John the Baptist and the Old Testament Scriptures are lesser lights
that give witness to the Greater Light, Jesus Christ. No individual or book can
reveal Jesus in the fullness of His glory.
“In every page, whether history, or precept, or prophecy, the Old Testament
Scriptures are irradiated with the glory of the Son of God. So far as it was of
divine institution, the entire system of Judaism was a compacted prophecy of the
gospel. To Christ "give all the prophets witness." (Acts 10:43) DA p. 211
“With the first advent of Christ there was ushered in an era of greater light and
glory; but it would indeed be sinful ingratitude to despise and ridicule the lesser
light because a fuller and more glorious light had dawned. Those who despise the
blessings and glory of the Jewish age are not prepared to be benefited by the
preaching of the gospel. The brightness of the Father's glory, and the excellence
and perfection of His sacred law are only understood through the atonement
made upon Calvary by His dear Son; but even the atonement loses its significance
when the law of God is rejected. This Day with God, p. 246
“What speech is to thought, so is Christ to the invisible Father. He is the
manifestation of the Father, and is called the Word of God. God sent His Son into
the world, His divinity clothed with humanity, that man might bear the image of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 101 of 379
the invisible God. He made known in His words, His character, His power and
majesty, the nature and attributes of God. Divinity flashed through humanity in
softening, subduing light. He was the embodiment of the law of God, which is
the transcript of His character (Manuscript. 77, 1899).” 5BC p. 1131
The Bible is like a photograph of Jesus, a map, a scale model or a shadow. The
shadow, the map, the scale model and the picture are miniature descriptions of
a far greater reality.

The New Testament gives Witness to Jesus

John 21:24, 25
“This is the disciple who testifies [gives witness] of these things, and wrote these
things; and we know that his testimony is true. 25 And there are also many other
things that Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that even
the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Amen.”

The Spirit of Prophecy is a Lesser Light

“The Lord has sent his people much instruction, line upon line, precept upon
precept, here a little, and there a little. Little heed is given to the Bible, and the
Lord has given a lesser light to lead men and women to the greater light. O, how
much good would be accomplished if the books containing this light were read
with a determination to carry out the principles they contain!” RH January 20,
1903

God’s People are ‘Moons’ Reflecting the Light of Jesus

John 12:34-36: Jesus is the light and his followers should reflect His light:
“The people answered Him, "We have heard from the law that the Christ remains
forever; and how can You say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up'? Who is this Son
of Man?" 35 Then Jesus said to them, "A little while longer the light is with you.
Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you; he who walks in


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 102 of 379
darkness does not know where he is going. 36 While you have the light, believe in
the light, that you may become sons of light." These things Jesus spoke, and
departed, and was hidden from them.”
Ephesians 5:8-14: Those who accept Jesus reflect His light and they expose
the works of darkness:
“For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as
children of light 9(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and
truth), 10 finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. 11 And have no fellowship with
the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. 12 For it is shameful
even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. 13 But all things
that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest
is light. 14 Therefore He says: "Awake, you who sleep, arise from the dead, and
Christ will give you light."
“As the moon and the stars of the solar system shine by the reflected light of the
sun, so, as far as their teaching is true, do the world's great thinkers reflect
[lesser lights] the rays of the Sun of Righteousness. Every gem of thought, every
flash of the intellect, is from the Light of the world.” DA p. 465
"Ye are the light of the world," said Christ to His disciples. As the sun goes forth in
the heavens, dispelling the shades of night, and filling the world with brightness,
so must the followers of Jesus let their light shine to dispel the moral darkness
of a world lying in sin. However, they have no light of themselves; it is the light
of Heaven that they are to reflect to the world.” Reflecting Christ, p. 379

The Meaning of the Stars

Daniel 12:3; 12:10: The wise who understand Bible prophecy are like stars:
“Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those
who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. . . Many shall be
purified, made white, and refined, but the wicked shall do wickedly; and none of
the wicked shall understand, but the wise shall understand.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 103 of 379
“Among earth's inhabitants, scattered in every land, there are those who have not
bowed the knee to Baal. Like the stars of heaven, which appear only at night,
these faithful ones will shine forth when darkness covers the earth and gross
darkness the people. In heathen Africa, in the Catholic lands of Europe and of
South America, in China, in India, in the islands of the sea, and in all the dark
corners of the earth, God has in reserve a firmament of chosen ones that will yet
shine forth amidst the darkness, revealing clearly to an apostate world the
transforming power of obedience to His law. Even now they are appearing in
every nation, among every tongue and people; and in the hour of deepest
apostasy, when Satan's supreme effort is made to cause "all, both small and
great, rich and poor, free and bond," to receive, under penalty of death, the sign
of allegiance to a false rest day, these faithful ones, "blameless and harmless, the
sons of God, without rebuke," will "shine as lights in the world." Revelation
13:16; Philippians 2:15. The darker the night, the more brilliantly will they
shine.” PK pp. 188, 189
“The contest is between the commandments of God and the commandments of
men. In this time the gold will be separated from the dross in the church. True
godliness will be clearly distinguished from the appearance and tinsel of it. Many
a star that we have admired for its brilliancy will then go out in darkness.
Chaff like a cloud will be borne away on the wind, even from places where we see
only floors of rich wheat. All who assume the ornaments of the sanctuary, but are
not clothed with Christ's righteousness, will appear in the shame of their own
nakedness. Mar p. 200
Ellen White referred to John Wycliffe as the ‘morning star of the Reformation’.
Revelation 22:16 tell us that Jesus is the bright and morning star. How then
can Wycliffe be the morning star? Here is the answer:
“Every true believer catches the beams from the Morning Star and transmits
the light to those who sit in darkness. Not only do they shine amid the darkness
of their own neighborhood, but as a church they shine forth to regions beyond.
The Lord expects every man to do his duty. Everyone who unites with the church

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 104 of 379
is to be one with Christ to diffuse the beams of the Morning Star, and becoming
the light of the world, Christ and His people are to be copartners in the great
work of saving the world.” Manuscript 51, Nov. 14, 1894. This Day with God, p.
327.
Regarding the seven stars in the right hand of Jesus, Ellen White explained:
"These things saith He that holdeth the seven stars in His right hand." Revelation
2:1. These words are spoken to the teachers in the church--those entrusted by
God with weighty responsibilities. The sweet influences that are to be abundant
in the church are bound up with God's ministers, who are to reveal the love of
Christ. The stars of heaven are under His control. He fills them with light. He
guides and directs their movements. If He did not do this, they would become
fallen stars. So with His ministers. They are but instruments in His hands, and
all the good they accomplish is done through His power. Through them His light
is to shine forth. The Savior is to be their efficiency. If they will look to Him as He
looked to the Father, they will be enabled to do His work. As they make God their
dependence, He will give them His brightness to reflect to the world.” AA, pp.
586, 587

Eclipse of the Two Witnesses: 1260 Years of Darkness

Revelation 11:3
“And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand
two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth."
Isaiah 50:3
“I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering."
Revelation 6:12
“I looked when He opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great
earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon
became like blood.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 105 of 379
The two witnesses (the lesser lights, Old and New Testaments) were clothed
in sackcloth during the 1260 years. Sackcloth is a black fabric that symbolizes
darkness, affliction and death.
As we have seen, the Old Testament gives witness to Jesus (John 5:39, 40, 45-
47; Luke 24:25-27, 44-46) as does the New Testament (see John 21:24, 25). In
this sense, the two witnesses give witness to Jesus.
“The two witnesses represent the Scriptures of the Old and the New Testament.
Both are important testimonies to the origin and perpetuity of the law of God.
Both are witnesses also to the plan of salvation. The types, sacrifices, and
prophecies of the Old Testament point forward to a Savior to come. The Gospels
and Epistles of the New Testament tell of a Savior who has come in the exact
manner foretold by type and prophecy.” GC p.267
Ellen White described how the two witnesses gave their testimony dimly
during the 1260 years of papal supremacy. The Greater and lesser lights
pointed to Jesus dimly because the papacy partially eclipsed them:
“The period when the two witnesses [the lesser light] were to prophesy clothed
in sackcloth ended in 1798. As they were approaching the termination of their
work in obscurity [darkness], war was to be made upon them by the power
represented as "the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit." In many of the
nations of Europe the powers that ruled in Church and State had for centuries
been controlled by Satan, through the medium of the papacy. But here is brought
to view a new manifestation of Satanic power [the fifth trumpet or first
woe].” GC p. 269
The fourth trumpet darkness was a precursor to the fifth trumpet where the
darkness became even more intense to the point of a total eclipse of the light of
the two witnesses in the French Revolution:
“According to the words of the prophet, then, a little before the year 1798 some
power of satanic origin and character would rise to make war upon the Bible.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 106 of 379
And in the land where the testimony of God's two witnesses should thus be
silenced, there would be manifest the atheism of the Pharaoh, and the
licentiousness of Sodom.” GC p. 269

The Darkening of the Sun and Moon

Significantly, Ellen White titled the chapter in The Great Controversy on the
period of papal supremacy with the words: “An Era of Spiritual Darkness.”
She wrote repeatedly about the darkness that characterized this period:
“The accession of the Roman Church to power marked the beginning of the Dark
Ages. As her power increased, the darkness deepened. Faith was transferred
from Christ, the true foundation, to the pope of Rome [Christ, the Greater Light
was eclipsed]. Instead of trusting in the Son of God for forgiveness of sins and for
eternal salvation, the people looked to the pope, and to the priests and prelates to
whom he delegated authority. They were taught that the pope was their earthly
mediator and that none could approach God except through him; and, further,
that he stood in the place of God to them and was therefore to be implicitly
obeyed. A deviation from his requirements was sufficient cause for the severest
punishment to be visited upon the bodies and souls of the offenders. Thus, the
minds of the people were turned away from God to fallible, erring, and cruel
men, nay, more, to the prince of darkness himself, who exercised his power
through them. Sin was disguised in a garb of sanctity. When the Scriptures are
suppressed, and man comes to regard himself as supreme, we need look only for
fraud, deception, and debasing iniquity. GC p. 55
“About the close of the eighth century, papists put forth the claim that in the first
ages of the church the bishops of Rome had possessed the same spiritual power
which they now assumed [she then discusses the doctrine of apostolic
succession]. . .” GC, pp. 56, 57
“. . . The darkness seemed to grow more dense. Image worship became more
general. Candles were burned before images, and prayers were offered to them.
The most absurd and superstitious customs prevailed. The minds of men were so

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 107 of 379
completely controlled by superstition that reason itself seemed to have lost its
sway. While priests and bishops were themselves pleasure-loving, sensual, and
corrupt, it could only be expected that the people who looked to them for guidance
would be sunken in ignorance and vice.” GC, p. 57
“The advancing centuries witnessed a constant increase of error in the
doctrines put forth from Rome. . .” GC, p. 58
“In the thirteenth century was established that most terrible of all the engines of
the papacy—the Inquisition. The prince of darkness wrought with the leaders of
the papal hierarchy. In their secret councils Satan and his angels controlled the
minds of evil men, while unseen in the midst stood an angel of God, taking the
fearful record of their iniquitous decrees and writing the history of deeds too
horrible to appear to human eyes.” GC, p. 59
“But "the noon of the papacy was the midnight of the world."—J. A. Wylie, The
History of Protestantism, b. 1, chapter 4. The Holy Scriptures were almost
unknown, not only to the people, but to the priests. Like the Pharisees of old, the
papal leaders hated the light which would reveal their sins.” GC, p. 60
“The condition of the world under the Romish power presented a fearful and
striking fulfillment of the words of the prophet Hosea: "My people are destroyed
for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject
thee: . . . seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy
children." "There is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. By
swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they
break out, and blood toucheth blood." Hosea 4:6, 1, 2. Such were the results of
banishing the word of God.” GC pp. 55-60
“The iniquity and spiritual darkness that prevailed under the supremacy of
Rome were the inevitable result of her suppression of the Scriptures. . . GC p.
586




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 108 of 379
“Satan well knew that the Holy Scriptures would enable men to discern his
deceptions and withstand his power. It was by the word that even the Savior of
the world had resisted his attacks. At every assault, Christ presented the shield of
eternal truth, saying, ‘It is written.’ To every suggestion of the adversary, He
opposed the wisdom and power of the word. In order for Satan to maintain his
sway over men, and establish the authority of the papal usurper, he must keep
them in ignorance of the Scriptures. The Bible would exalt God and place finite
men in their true position; therefore its sacred truths must be concealed and
suppressed. This logic was adopted by the Roman Church. For hundreds of years
the circulation of the Bible was prohibited. The people were forbidden to read
it or to have it in their houses and unprincipled priests and prelates interpreted
its teachings to sustain their pretensions. Thus the pope came to be almost
universally acknowledged as the vicegerent of God on earth, endowed with
authority over church and state.” GC p. 51
“Mr. Miller and those who were in union with him supposed that the cleansing of
the sanctuary spoken of in Daniel 8:14 meant the purifying of the earth by fire
prior to its becoming the abode of the saints. This was to take place at the second
advent of Christ; therefore, we looked for that event at the end of the 2300 days,
or years. But after our disappointment the Scriptures were carefully searched,
with prayer and earnest thought; and after a period of suspense, light poured in
upon our darkness; doubt and uncertainty were swept away.” CET p. 56
“Dear brethren and sisters: As error is fast progressing, we should seek to be
awake in the cause of God, and realize the time in which we live. Darkness is to
cover the earth, and gross darkness the people. Nearly all around us are being
enveloped in the thick darkness of error and delusion, it becomes us to shake
off stupidity and live near to God, where we can draw divine rays of light and
glory from the countenance of Jesus. As darkness thickens and error increases,
we should obtain a more thorough knowledge of the truth and be prepared to
maintain our position from the Scriptures.” EW, pp. 104, 105



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 109 of 379
"To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is
because there is no light in them." Isaiah 8:20. The people of God are directed to
the Scriptures as their safeguard against the influence of false teachers and the
delusive power of spirits of darkness.” GC p. 593

The Papacy Darkened the Sun and Moon

Darkening the Sun and the Moon
In order to understand the darkening of the sun and moon during the fourth
trumpet we must study the ‘daily’ that the little horn removed from the Prince
of the Host. What does the word ‘daily’ mean?
It is difficult to interpret the word unless we go to other places in Scripture
that explain it. The word is an adjective that has no noun to qualify. So the
question is: The little horn took away the daily what? The meaning of the word
tahmid is simply “something which goes on continuously without interruption.”
However, what is it that ‘goes on continuously without interruption’ in Daniel 8?
It is important to keep in mind that the word tahmid has the definite article
‘the’. It is THE daily (hatamid) that the little horn took away (see also Daniel
11:31; 12:11). The King James Version translators added the word ‘sacrifice,’
thinking that tahmid refers to the morning and evening sacrifice. However, this
is only partially true. There is a Hebrew expression for the daily sacrifice, olat
tahmid. Regarding the King James Translation Ellen White wrote:
“Then I saw in relation to the "daily" (Daniel 8:12) that the word ‘sacrifice’ was
supplied by man's wisdom, and does not belong to the text, and that the Lord
gave the correct view of it to those who gave the judgment hour cry.” EW, pp. 74,
75.
What, then, does this word mean? We must allow other Old Testament texts to
explain. The Old Testament makes it abundantly clear that this word refers to
the daily ministration of the priest in the court and in the holy place of the
sanctuary. This means that the little horn was going to attempt to take away

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 110 of 379
from the Prince of the host His ministration in the court and in the holy place of
the sanctuary.
In order to comprehend how the little horn did this, we need to answer two
fundamental questions:
   1) In which sanctuary did the prince minister at this point in the vision of
      Daniel 8?
   2) What does each piece of furniture in the court and in the holy place
      represent? What did the altar of sacrifice, the candlestick, the table of
      showbread and the altar of incense represent?

If we can find the answer to these questions, then we will be able also to
determine what the little horn attempted to take away from the Prince and
when.
Let us look for an answer to the first question. Joshua 5:13-15 identifies the
Prince of the host as Jesus. So, where does Jesus minister today? The evidence
from the New Testament clearly indicates that during the Christian era Jesus
was ministering in the heavenly sanctuary (Hebrews 8:1, 2).
Matthew 21:12-13 tells us that at the end of the Triumphal Entry of Jesus into
Jerusalem, He entered the temple of God and called it ‘My Father’s house’.
However, a short while later, when Jesus departed from the Jewish temple, He
announced to the Jewish leaders, “your house is left unto you desolate.”
(Matthew 23:38). Clearly, the Jerusalem Temple was no longer the ‘Father’s
house’ nor the ‘temple of God’ because Jesus, the ‘living Shekinah’ had forsaken
it. The rending of the veil indicated that the functions of the earthly sanctuary
had concluded and the system of earthly types and shadows had concluded
(Matthew 27:51).
Because the Jewish nation rejected Christ, in AD 70 the Romans destroyed
the Jerusalem Temple (Luke 19:41-44) and it has never been rebuilt. For this


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 111 of 379
reason, it is not possible to conclude that the sanctuary the little horn trampled
upon during the Christian era was the Jerusalem Temple. During the Christian
dispensation when the little horn did its work, there was no earthly Jerusalem
Temple in existence!
However, if the little horn did not do its work in the Jerusalem Temple, then
which one? The answer is two-fold.
    First, upon His ascension, Jesus began His ministry as High Priest in the
     literal heavenly sanctuary personally and physically (Hebrews 8:1-2).
     He is the genuine High Priest who ministers in the literal heavenly
     temple on the literal heavenly Mt. Zion in the literal heavenly Jerusalem.
     He is the minister of a better covenant because He presents before His
     Father His own better blood that runs through His veins. He is the living
     Shekinah in the heavenly temple.
    Secondly, Jesus is also ministers in the spiritual temple on earth and that
     temple is the Christian Church. This spiritual temple has spiritual
     foundations, a spiritual Cornerstone, spiritual building stones and a
     spiritual Shekinah (the Holy Spirit) who entered it on the Day of
     Pentecost (see, Ephesians 2:20-22; 1Peter 2:1-10; 1Corinthians 3:16-17;
     2Corinthians 6:14-18; 2Thessalonians 2:3-4). In other words, Jesus
     ministers in two places at the same time: Physically in heaven and
     spiritually on earth through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. His heavenly
     hosts are the angels and His earthly hosts are His faithful followers.
So what does Daniel 8 mean when it states that the little horn took away the
‘daily’ from the Prince and killed His hosts? Obviously, it cannot mean that the
little horn literally and personally traveled to heaven deposed Jesus, sat in the
temple and destroyed the angels.
What, then, does it mean? We find the answer in Daniel 8:11 where the text
tells us that the little horn cast down the place of the Prince’s sanctuary to the


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 112 of 379
earth. We have already shown that the place of the Prince’s sanctuary is in the
literal heavenly Temple and in His Church on earth.
The word ‘place’ (makon) in the text is unusual. There are some very common
Hebrew words for ‘place’ in the Old Testament but this is not one of them. The
word makon appears only 17 times in the Hebrew Bible and in 16 of those
references the word denotes the heavenly sanctuary as God’s dwelling place
(for example, Exodus 15:17).
Perhaps it would be good to consider some of those references. In 1Kings 8:37-
50 (and parallel passages in 1Chronicles 6:30, 33, 39; study also Psalm 89:14;
97:2 where makon is translated, ‘habitation’) tells us that God hears our
prayers, forgives our sins, saves us and metes out His justice from His heavenly
place (makon).
1 Kings 8:37-50
"When there is famine in the land, pestilence or blight or mildew, locusts or
grasshoppers; when their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities;
whatever plague or whatever sickness there is; 38 whatever prayer, whatever
supplication is made by anyone, or by all Your people Israel, when each one knows
the plague of his own heart, and spreads out his hands toward this temple: 39
then hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and act, and give to
everyone according to all his ways, whose heart You know (for You alone know
the hearts of all the sons of men), 40 that they may fear You all the days that they
live in the land which You gave to our fathers. 41"Moreover, concerning a
foreigner, who is not of Your people Israel, but has come from a far country for
Your name's sake 42 (for they will hear of Your great name and Your strong hand
and Your outstretched arm), when he comes and prays toward this temple, 43
hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the
foreigner calls to You, that all peoples of the earth may know Your name and fear
You, as do Your people Israel, and that they may know that this temple which I
have built is called by Your name. 44 "When Your people go out to battle against


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 113 of 379
their enemy, wherever You send them, and when they pray to the Lord toward the
city which You have chosen and the temple which I have built for Your name, 45
then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their
cause. 46 "When they sin against You (for there is no one who does not sin), and
You become angry with them and deliver them to the enemy, and they take them
captive to the land of the enemy, far or near; 47 yet when they come to themselves
in the land where they were carried captive, and repent, and make supplication
to You in the land of those who took them captive, saying, 'We have sinned and
done wrong, we have committed wickedness'; 48 and when they return to You with
all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies who led them
away captive, and pray to You toward their land which You gave to their
fathers, the city which You have chosen and the temple which I have built for
Your name: 49 then hear in heaven Your dwelling place their prayer and their
supplication, and maintain their cause, 50 and forgive Your people who have
sinned against You, and all their transgressions which they have transgressed
against You; and grant them compassion before those who took them captive,
that they may have compassion on them.”
There is a paradox in this passage. Although God’s people utter their prayers
toward the earthly temple, God hears their prayers and answers from
heaven:
1 Kings 8:30
“Hear the plea of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward
this place: O hear in heaven your dwelling place, heed and forgive.” (See also
Daniel 6:10).
Thus, there is an intimate connection between the earthly and heavenly
temples. In a sense, God dwells in both! For our purposes here, it is important
to remember that when Nebuchadnezzar came and destroyed the Jerusalem
Temple, he was not able to touch the heavenly! In similar fashion, the little horn
was able to take over the sanctuary functions of the Prince and kill His hosts on


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 114 of 379
earth but it was not able to take away the functions of the Prince in heaven nor
destroy His angels.
The act of casting down the place of the Prince’s sanctuary does not mean that
the little horn demolished the mortar and stones of the heavenly sanctuary.
The meaning is that the little horn usurped and placed on earth the ‘daily’ or
‘continual’ ministration of the heavenly Prince. In other words, that which
belonged to the Prince in heaven, the little horn usurped and set up on earth.
Significantly, at this point in the flow of Christian history, the little horn
attempted to interfere mainly with the ‘daily’ ministry of the Prince in the court
and in the holy place. This is understandable in that during the period of papal
dominion, Jesus had not yet entered the most holy place
The central issue at hand is this, who will control the sanctuary service in the
court and in the holy place, the Prince or the little horn? Further, why is control
of the sanctuary such a vital issue?
We find the answers to these questions by considering the meaning of the altar
of sacrifice in the court and the candlestick, the table of showbread and the altar
of incense in the holy place.
The Altar of Sacrifice
Morning and evening the priest offered a lamb upon this altar for the sins of
Israel. As long as the Hebrew sanctuary and temple stood, there was never a
time when the fire was not burning. This was the daily burnt offering.
Exodus 29:39
"Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs of the first year, day by
day continually [tahmid]. 39 One lamb you shall offer in the morning and the
other lamb you shall offer at twilight.”
The sacrifice of the lamb, of course, represented the death of Jesus Christ on the
cross (John 1:29; 1Peter 1:19; Revelation 13:8). The priest offered the sacrifice

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 115 of 379
daily, morning and evening, thus indicating that the death of Jesus has
enduring value. He died once-for-all and never needs to die again!
Hebrews 7:26, 27 brings out the enduring benefits of this one and only
sacrifice of Christ:
“For such a High Priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled,
separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens; 27 who does not
need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for His own sins and
then for the people's, for this He did once for all when He offered up Himself.”
Hebrews 9:25-26, KJV underlines the same fact:
“Not yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the
holy place every year with the blood of others; for then must he often have
suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world
hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is appointed
unto men once to die, but after this the judgment: So Christ was once offered to
bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second
time without sin unto salvation.”
The Roman Catholic dogma of the sacrifice of the mass counterfeits the once-
for-all sacrifice of Christ on the cross. According to Roman Catholic dogma, the
priest sacrifices Jesus repeatedly in every sacrifice of the Mass. Instead of
looking to the Lamb of God who presents the blood of His once-for-all sacrifice
in heaven, the Roman Catholic Church teaches believers to look at the wafer
host where, supposedly, the real body of Jesus in its totality (ubiquity) is
present. Instead of coming boldly to Jesus at the throne of grace in heaven to
claim His once-for-all and sufficient sacrifice, Roman Catholic priests teach the
faithful that the host nourishes them because they are feeding on the literal
body of Jesus on earth.
In fact, the priests store the host in a flower-like artifact called the Tabernacle.
At the center of the artifact is the circular wafer host, and coming forth from


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 116 of 379
the edges of the host are the rays of the sun. When the priest brings the
Tabernacle before the congregation, he teaches them to bow and worship the
host. This is simply a deceitful system of sun worship.
Furthermore, Roman Catholic theology teaches that the priest on earth takes
over the power and prerogatives of Jesus. When the priest pronounces the
words of consecration hoc est corpus meum (‘this is my body’) the wafer is no
longer a wafer but rather the real physical body of Jesus. Roman Catholic
theology teaches that when these words are pronounced, the earthly priest has
the power to transubstantiate the wafer into the real body of Jesus. That is to
say, the earthly priest supposedly has the power to create His Creator! This is
blasphemy to the fullest degree.
St. Alphonsus Liguori, one of the 33 theological doctors in the history of the
Roman Catholic Church, wrote about the transubstantiating power of the
priest:
“Thus the priest may, in a certain manner, be called the creator of his Creator,
since by saying the words of consecration, he creates, as it were, Jesus in the
sacrament, by giving him a sacramental existence, and produces him as a victim
to be offered to the eternal Father. As in creating the world it was sufficient for
God to have said, Let it be made, and it was created—He spoke, and they were
made—so it is sufficient for the priest to say, ‘Hoc est corpus meum,’ and behold
the bread is no longer bread, but the body of Jesus Christ. ‘The power of the
priest,’ says St. Bernardine of Sienna, ‘is the power of the divine person; for the
transubstantiation of the bread requires as much power as the creation of the
world.” St. Alphonsus de Liguori, Dignity and Duties of the Priest or Selva, pp. 33-
34.
The Table of Showbread
The table of the showbread contained two stacks of unleavened bread, each
with six loaves for a total of twelve. The number twelve indicated that there was
sufficient bread to feed every person of the twelve tribes of Israel. God called

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 117 of 379
this bread the ‘continual bread’ (tahmid) because it was available continually
to satisfy the spiritual needs of Israel.
Numbers 4:7, KJV
“And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue, and put
thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and covers to cover withal: and
the continual [tahmid] bread shall be thereon.”
What does the showbread in the holy place of the sanctuary represent?
Isaiah 55:10-11: Bread is a symbol of the Word of God:
“For as the rain comes down, and the snow from heaven, and do not return there,
but water the earth, and make it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the
sower and bread to the eater, 11 So shall My word be that goes forth from My
mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it
shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it.” 5 When Satan tempted Jesus to turn
stones to bread in the wilderness Jesus compared His bread with the Word:
Matthew 4:4
“Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the
mouth of God.” (Matthew 4:4; see also Deuteronomy 8:3-4).
After Jesus fed five thousand men with only five loaves of bread and two fishes,
He made a very controversial remark:
John 6:53
“Then Jesus said to them, ‘Most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of
the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you.’”
Roman Catholics use this text to teach that in each mass believers eat the real
flesh of Jesus and the priest drinks His real blood! Is this what Jesus meant? Of
course not! Jesus explained the meaning of His own remark:



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 118 of 379
John 6:63
“It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak
to you are spirit, and they are life.”
That is to say, the words of Jesus have power to nourish our spiritual life. As
literal bread sustains physical life, the Word of God sustains spiritual life.
Spiritually speaking, when we study the Word we assimilate Jesus and he
becomes flesh of our flesh and bone of our bones.
The ‘ingested’ Word of God cleanses our life and gives us the victory over sin.
David understood this when he exclaimed:
Psalm 119:9-11
“How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word.
10 With my whole heart I have sought You; Oh, let me not wander from Your

commandments! 11 Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin
against You.”
Jesus taught the same truth to His disciples:
John 15:3
“You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.”
The apostle Paul added his testimony when he stated that the Word cleanses
and sanctifies the church:
Ephesians 5:25, 26
“Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself
for her, 26 that He might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by
the word.”
Eating a literal wafer certainly has no power to spiritually feed and transform
us. The ‘ingested’ Word cleanses our lives from sin.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 119 of 379
So, what does the table of the showbread teach us? There are at least three
lessons:
    The bread represents Jesus as contained in the written Word of God.
    The bread is continually available for all of God’s people.
    If assimilated, the word will nourish our spiritual life and provide victory
     over sin.
In what sense did the little horn cast down the meaning of the table of the
showbread? The answer is not difficult to find. Roman Catholicism substituted
the traditions and philosophies of men in place of the Word of God. The word
of a supposedly infallible magisterium was placed above a ‘thus saith the Lord’.
The number of unbiblical and anti-biblical traditions in Roman Catholicism is
legion. Here are some: Purgatory, limbo, celibacy, auricular confession, the
immortality of the soul, an eternally burning hell, lent, processions, the mass,
relics, canonization of saints, the rosary, bowing before images, the immaculate
conception, the assumption of Mary, baptism of infants by aspersion, novenas,
the observance of Sunday, etc.
What was the result of these traditions replacing the Word of God? Spiritual
malnutrition and a moral laxity that made the pagan Romans look like saints!
It is no coincidence that the third and fourth seals of Revelation describe this
period as one of famine for the Word of God (see, Revelation 6:5-8). In effect,
during the period of the third horse (the period of Constantine) the Church
assimilated the unbiblical teachings and practices of the pagans and the result
under the fourth horse (the 1260 years of papal dominion) was a life
threatening scarcity of bread—famine!
This is also the period of the fourth church of Revelation. Under this church,
Jezebel the harlot was in control. During this period of 1260 years, there was
no dew or rain and as a result, there was famine for the word of God.
(Revelation 2:20; 11:3, 6; 12:6, 14; cf. Amos 8:11-12).


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 120 of 379
The Candlestick
According to Leviticus 24:1-4, one of the roles of the High Priest was to trim the
wicks and replenish the oil in the seven-branched candlestick in the holy place.
Thus, he would make sure that the light of the candlestick burned continually.
Leviticus 24:1-4
“Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 2 "Command the children of Israel that
they bring to you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, to make the lamps burn
continually. 3 Outside the veil of the Testimony, in the tabernacle of meeting,
Aaron shall be in charge of it from evening until morning before the Lord
continually; it shall be a statute forever in your generations. 4 He shall be in
charge of the lamps on the pure gold lampstand before the Lord continually.”
What did the seven-branched candlestick symbolize? Let us interpret the
symbols:
    The number seven represents fullness.
    The Oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit.
    The candlesticks represent the seven churches.
What does the candlestick itself represent? Revelation 1 provides the clear
answer. The seven-branched candlestick represents seven stages in the history
of the Christian church from the days of the apostles until the end of time:
Revelation 1:20
“The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands
which you saw are the seven churches.”
Ellen White explained the meaning of the seven candlesticks:
“The names of the seven churches are symbolic of the church in different periods
of the Christian Era. The number 7 indicates completeness, and is symbolic of the
fact that the messages extend to the end of time, while the symbols used reveal


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 121 of 379
the condition of the church at different periods in the history of the world.” AA,
p. 585
Thus, the candlestick represents the witness of the church to the world
through the power of the Holy Spirit in different periods of Christian history.
The period of papal dominion was one of darkness. The light of the church
shone' but dimly for it was ‘the dark ages’. At times, it looked like the light of
the church was about to be extinguished. Particularly during the period of
Thyatira, the light burned dim.
The Golden Altar of Incense
The incense that the priest offered upon the golden altar was ‘the altar of
perpetual (tahmid) incense’ because the High Priest was to burn it on the altar
morning and evening continually.
What did the incense represent? The answer is that the incense upon the altar
bears a relationship with the prayers of the congregation.
Luke 1:8-11: These verses tell us that while Zacharias went into the holy place
of the temple to offer incense, the people were praying to God outside:
“So it was that while he [Zacharias] was serving as priest before God in the order
of his division, 9 according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn
incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. 10 And the whole multitude of
the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. 11 Then an angel of the
Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense.”
Psalm 141:2
“Let my prayer be set before You as incense, the lifting up of my hands as the
evening sacrifice.”
Revelation 8:3-4: The incense bears a relationship with our prayers.
However, the incense is not symbolic of our prayers.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 122 of 379
“Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He
was given much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all the saints
upon the golden altar that was before the throne. 4 And the smoke of the incense,
with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand. “
“There is an inexhaustible fund of perfect obedience accruing from his
obedience. In heaven, his merits, his self-denial and self-sacrifice, are treasured
up as incense to be offered up with the prayers of his people. As the sinner's
sincere, humble prayers ascend to the throne of God, Christ mingles with
them the merits of his life of perfect obedience. Our prayers are made fragrant
by this incense. Christ has pledged himself to intercede in our behalf, and the
Father always hears his Son. Pray then; pray without ceasing; an answer is sure
to come. RH, October 30, 1900.
The incense represents the merits of Jesus’ obedience that He mingles with the
prayers of His people. The incense makes our prayers acceptable before the
Father.
Significantly, the veil that divided the holy from the most holy place was
directly behind the altar. Behind the veil stood the ark of covenant, a symbol
of the throne of God. When the priest burned the incense on the golden altar,
the smoke ascended over the curtain and entered the presence of God beyond
the veil. For this reason, there were angels embroidered upon the veil. The
angels take our prayers to Jesus and combined with His merits, they enter the
very presence of God. This is the meaning of the ladder that Jacob saw in his
dream (see, Genesis 28:11-12 and John 1:51).
In what sense, then, did the little horn take away this function from the Prince?
Roman Catholicism has established a counterfeit priesthood to whom the
faithful confess their sins. That is to say, instead of the faithful directing their
prayers to Jesus in heaven for forgiveness, they utter them to a human priest
on earth who cannot forgive. In this way, the little horn casts down the
intercessory ministry of Jesus in heaven and places it on earth! Even further,


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 123 of 379
the faithful in Roman Catholicism offer their petitions to Mary and the saints
instead of to Jesus. In consequence, the attention of the faithful shifts away from
Jesus who can truly hear their petitions and forgive their sins.
The Bible is clear that there is ‘one mediator between God and men, the man
Christ Jesus’ (1 Timothy 2:5). Jesus assured us that He is ‘the way, the truth and
the life’, and that no man comes unto the father except by Him (John 14:6). The
apostle Paul wrote in Romans 8:34 that Jesus ‘makes intercession for us.’
Furthermore, in words that are impossible to misunderstand, the book of
Hebrews tells that Jesus ‘is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to
God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them.’
(Hebrews 7:25). 1John 2:1 tells us that ‘we have an advocate with the Father,
Jesus Christ the righteous.’ Why do we need mere human intermediaries when
we can come boldly to the throne of grace through Jesus, the God-Man? The
confessional in Roman Catholicism focuses the attention of people upon a man
on earth instead of directing them to Christ in heaven.
In summary, two princes are struggling for the souls of human beings. One
Prince, Jesus, performs a continual ministry of salvation in the heavenly
sanctuary by pleading the blood of His one and only sacrifice before the Father
(the altar of sacrifice). That Prince feeds His people with the Word of God (the
table of showbread), keeps the light of the church burning by the power of the
Holy Spirit (the candlestick) and forgives those who come to Him in penitence
and prayer (the golden altar of incense).
The other prince, Satan, unable to overthrow the heavenly ministry of the
Prince, establishes a counterfeit continual ministry (the mass, tradition, the
confessional, the pope) in the earthly temple—the church (see 2Thessalonians
2:3-4). By shifting the attention of the people from heaven to earth, he casts
down the place of the sanctuary and prevents human beings from discerning
the saving work of Christ in heaven! Not being able to discern the saving work
of Christ in heaven, souls perish in sin!
Darkening the Stars
The vision of Daniel 8 portrays a ram with two horns (verses 3-4), a he goat
with a notable horn and four horns that came out after the notable horn was


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 124 of 379
broken (verses 5-8). Then a little horn attacked the host (verse 10) and finally
the Prince of the host (verse 11).
The angel interpreter at the end of the vision explained that the two-horned
ram represents the Medes and Persians (verse 20). He then stated that the he-
goat represents Greece and its notable horn its first king (verse 21). Next, he
informed us that the four horns represent the divisions of Greece after the
death of its first king (verse 22). Finally, he explains that a king will arise
(verse 23) who will “destroy the mighty and the holy people” (verse 24) and
‘stand up against the Prince of princes’ (verse 25).
Even a passing glance at Daniel 8 indicates that “the host and the stars of heaven”
in the vision is found in the same identical place as “the mighty and holy people”
in the explanation of the vision. Thus, the ‘stars’ represent God’s people.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 125 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 126 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


            CHAPTER 6: THE FIFTH TRUMPET

In order to understand the fifth trumpet, it is helpful to review some details
from the seven churches series.

The Elijah Typology

Foundational Principle
The seven churches, seven seals and seven trumpets cover the same basic
historical events from different perspectives. The churches provide the
chronological sequence for the rest of the book of Revelation. That is to say,
the seven churches are to Revelation, what Daniel 2 is to Daniel.
    The first church, seal and trumpet describe the period of the apostolic
     church.
    The second church, seal and trumpet describe the period when the
     emperors of the pagan Roman Empire persecuted the church.
    The third church, seal and trumpet describe the period when paganism
     penetrated the Christian church during the reign of Constantine.
    The fourth church, seal and trumpet describe the period when the
     apostate papal church eclipsed the Bible and the work of Christ in the
     heavenly sanctuary.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 127 of 379
Regarding the seven churches, Ellen White wrote:
“The names of the seven churches are symbolic of the church in different periods
of the Christian Era. The number 7 indicates completeness, and is symbolic of the
fact that the messages extend to the end of time, while the symbols used reveal
the condition of the church at different periods in the history of the word.” AA p.
585
Futurist expositors of Bible prophecy such as Hal Lindsey and Dave Hunt
agree with Ellen White that the seven churches represent seven consecutive
periods of Christian Church history. They also agree that the fourth church
represents the period of papal apostasy.
The central protagonist of the fourth church is Jezebel. It is clear that the
Jezebel in the fourth church cannot be the literal person because during the
dark ages, literal Jezebel was already dead. It is obvious that Old Testament
Jezebel did not live 1260 years.

Fourth, fifth and sixth Church: Apostasy, French Revolution,
and Judgment

The mention of Jezebel in the church of Thyatira makes it necessary to study
the Elijah story in the Old Testament. Let us compare the Old Testament story
with the period of the fourth church, Thyatira. Here is the description of the
fourth church with my own explanatory notes in brackets. We will notice that
the fourth church actually summarizes the central events of the fourth, fifth
and sixth trumpets:
    The 1260-year persecution
    The French Revolution
    The period of the judgment
Revelation 2:20-23
    “Nevertheless I have a few things against you, because you [the church of
     Thyatira] allow that woman Jezebel [the beast of Revelation 13 and
     harlot of Revelation 17], who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and
     seduce My servants to commit sexual immorality [fornication, union of
     Church and state] and eat things sacrificed to idols [idolatry]. And I gave

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 128 of 379
      her time [1260 years] to repent of her sexual immorality [fornication
      with the civil powers], and she did not repent. Indeed I will cast her into
      a sickbed [the deadly wound], and those who commit adultery with her
      [France] into great tribulation [the French Revolution], unless they
      repent of their deeds. I will kill her children [the apostate Protestant
      churches] with death, and all the churches [all seven of them] shall
      know that I am He who searches the minds and hearts [the investigative
      judgment]. And I will give to each one of you according to your works
      [the moment when the reward is given to the harlot and her lovers].

The Elijah Story

In the Old Testament story (that is parallel to the fourth trumpet), Jezebel the
pagan priestess introduced a syncretistic, hybrid religion that led God’s
people, Israel, into apostasy. In Revelation, Thyatira represents the period of
history when the Christian church blended paganism with Christianity and
behaved like Jezebel. This period is the same as the fourth trumpet. Let us
compare historical Jezebel with prophetic Jezebel.
    1A Historical Jezebel: Jezebel led Israel into false worship of the sun
     god Baal and idolatry:
      1 Kings 16:30, 31
      “Now Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all
      who were before him. And it came to pass, as though it had been a trivial
      thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat that he took
      as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Sidonians and he went
      and served Baal and worshiped him.”
      The sun god, under the general title of Baal, or ‘lord,’ was the chief object
      of worship of the Canaanites. Each locality had its special Baal, and the
      various local Baals were summed up under the name of Baalim, or ‘lords.’
      Each Baal had a wife, who was a colorless reflection of himself
      [therefore the moon goddess Asherah].” Easton's Bible Dictionary, PC
      Study Bible; Copyright © 2003, 2006 Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.)
      “Though in a different form, idolatry exists in the Christian world today as
      verily as it existed among ancient Israel in the days of Elijah. The god of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 129 of 379
   many professedly wise men, of philosophers, poets, politicians, journalists--
   the god of polished fashionable circles, of many colleges and universities,
   even of some theological institutions--is little better than Baal, the sun-god
   of Phoenicia.” GC, p. 583.
 1B Prophetic Jezebel
   Revelation 2:20
   “Nevertheless I have a few things against you, because you allow that
   woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and seduce My
   servants to commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols.”
   “The spirit of concession to paganism opened the way for a still further
   disregard of Heaven's authority. Satan tampered with the fourth
   commandment also, and essayed to set aside the ancient Sabbath, the day
   which God had blessed and sanctified, [Genesis 2:2, 3.] and in its stead to
   exalt the festival observed by the heathen as “the venerable day of the
   sun.”
 2A Historical Jezebel:
   2 Kings 9:22
   Jezebel was a mother who had an adulterous relationship with the king
   and was involved in the occult.
   “Now it happened, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, "Is it peace, Jehu?" So
   he answered, "What peace, as long as the harlotries of your mother
   Jezebel and her witchcraft are so many?"
 2B Prophetic Jezebel
   Revelation 17:1, 2, 5
   “Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked
   with me, saying to me, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great
   harlot who sits on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth
   committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk
   with the wine of her fornication. . . And on her forehead a name was written:



Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 130 of 379
   MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF
   THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH."
   Revelation 18:23
   “For your merchants were the great men of the earth, for by your sorcery
   all the nations were deceived.”
 3A Historical Jezebel:
   The issues in the Old Testament story involved:
       God’s own professed people forsook the law of God.
       God’s own professed people practiced false worship.
       God’s own people forsook the true Gospel and embraced a false
        one.
   1 Kings 16:30, 31: Worship:
   “Now Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all
   who were before him. And it came to pass, as though it had been a trivial
   thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat that he took
   as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Sidonians and he went
   and served Baal and worshiped him.”
   1 Kings 18:18, 18: The Law:
   “Then it happened, when Ahab saw Elijah that Ahab said to him: "Is that
   you, O troubler of Israel?" And he answered, "I have not troubled Israel, but
   you and your father's house have, in that you have forsaken the
   commandments of the LORD and you have followed the Baals.”
   1 Kings 18:30, 31, 36, 37: The Gospel:
   “Then Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." So all the people
   came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD that was broken
   down. And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes
   of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD had come, saying, "Israel
   shall be your name". . . And it came to pass, at the time of the offering of the
   evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, "LORD God
   of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that You are God

Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 131 of 379
   in Israel and I am Your servant, and that I have done all these things at Your
   word. Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may know that You are
   the LORD God, and that You have turned their hearts back to You again."
 3B Prophetic Jezebel:
   The same three issues faced the church of Thyatira: Worship, the law
   and the Gospel.
   Revelation 13:4 (also the little horn of Daniel 8): Worship
   “So they worshiped the dragon who gave authority to the beast [symbol
   of the papacy]; and they worshiped the beast, saying, "Who is like the
   beast? Who is able to make war with him?"
   Daniel 7:25: The Law:
   “He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the
   saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the
   saints shall be given into his hand for a time and times and half a time.”
   During the fourth stage of the church, the Jezebel power bears the name,
   man of sin (which is transgression of the law) and the mystery of
   lawlessness.
   Daniel 8:11: The true Gospel:
   “He even exalted himself as high as the Prince of the host; and by him the
   daily sacrifices were taken away, and the place of His sanctuary was cast
   down.”
 4A Historical Jezebel: No rain
   1 Kings 17:1
   “And Elijah the Tishbite, of the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, "As the
   LORD God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor
   rain these years, [see James 5:17] except at my word."




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 132 of 379
 4B Prophetic Jezebel: No rain
   Revelation 11:6
   “These [the two witnesses] have power to shut heaven, so that no rain
   falls in the days [1260] of their prophecy.”
   Apostasy shut up the heavens so that it would not rain:
   2 Chronicles 7:13, 14
   “When I shut up heaven and there is no rain, or command the locusts to
   devour the land, or send pestilence among My people, 14 if My people who
   are called by My name will humble themselves, and pray and seek My
   face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and
   will forgive their sin and heal their land.”
   Amos 8:11, 12
   Hunger and famine occurs when there is scarcity of God’s Word:
   “Behold, the days are coming," says the Lord GOD, "That I will send a
   famine on the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of
   hearing the words of the LORD. They shall wander from sea to sea, and
   from north to east; they shall run to and fro, seeking the word of the LORD,
   but shall not find it.”
 5A Historical Jezebel: three and one half literal years:
   James 5:17
   “Elijah was a man with a nature like ours and he prayed earnestly that it
   would not rain; and it did not rain on the land for three years and six
   months.”
 5B Prophetic Jezebel: Three and one half symbolic years:
   “And I gave her time [chronos] to repent of her sexual immorality, and she
   did not repent.” Rev. 2:21
   “And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one
   thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth." Rev. 11:3


Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 133 of 379
   Daniel 7:25: The 1260 days equal three and one half times:
   “He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the
   saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the
   saints shall be given into his hand for a time and times and half a time.”
   God gave the Jezebel of the middle Ages time to repent of her fornication.
   How much time? ‘Time, times and the dividing of time’, or ‘1260 days’, a
   period that reached from 538 to 1798 AD. If the 1260 days are years, then
   Elijah, Jezebel and Ahab cannot be literal persons, but rather groups of
   people who went through an experience similar to Elijah.
 6A Historical Jezebel: A faithful remnant within apostate Israel who
  went into hiding:
   1 Kings 19:18
   “Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not
   bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him."
 6B Prophetic Jezebel: A faithful remnant within the apostate church
  who went into hiding:
   Revelation 2:24, 25
   “Now to you I say, and to the rest [loipos, the remnant] in Thyatira, as
   many as do not have this doctrine, who have not known the depths of
   Satan, as they say, I will put on you no other burden. But hold fast what you
   have till I come.”
 7A Historical Jezebel
   Ahab and Jezebel blamed Elijah for the calamities and hunted for Elijah
   everywhere:
   1 Kings 18:17
   “Then it happened, when Ahab saw Elijah that Ahab said to him: "Is that
   you, O troubler of Israel?"




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 134 of 379
   1 Kings 18:10, 17
   “As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my
   master has not sent someone to hunt for you; and when they said, 'He is
   not here,' he took an oath from the kingdom or nation that they could not
   find you.”
 7B Prophetic Jezebel
   The apostate papal church hunted for the faithful remnant everywhere.
   Groups like the Waldensians had to flee for their lives because the
   papacy organized crusades against them.
   Revelation 12:6
   “Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared
   by God that they should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty
   days.”
 8A Historical Jezebel
   Elijah fled to the wilderness from Jezebel’s wrath:
   1 Kings 17:3
   “Get away from here and turn eastward, and hide by the Brook Cherith that
   flows into the Jordan.”
 8B Prophetic Jezebel: The faithful remnant fled to the wilderness from
  the harlot’s wrath:
   Revelation 12:6, 14
   “Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared
   by God that they should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty
   days. . . However, the woman was given two wings of a great eagle that she
   might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time
   and times and half a time from the presence of the serpent.”
 9A Historical Jezebel: God nourished the persecuted faithful in the
  wilderness:



Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 135 of 379
   1 Kings 17:4
   “And it will be that you shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded
   the ravens to feed you there."
   1 Kings 17:6: God used the ravens to feed Elijah
   “The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and
   meat in the evening; and he drank from the brook.”
 9B Prophetic Jezebel: God fed the faithful remnant when they fled to the
  wilderness:
   Revelation 12:6, 14
   “Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared
   by God that they should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty
   days. . . However, the woman was given two wings of a great eagle that she
   might fly into the wilderness to her place where she is nourished for a time
   and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent.”
 10A Historical Jezebel: Jezebel was a murderer of God’s prophets:
   1 Kings 18:4
   “For so it was, while Jezebel massacred the prophets of the LORD, that
   Obadiah had taken one hundred prophets and hidden them, fifty to a cave,
   and had fed them with bread and water.”
   2 Kings 9:7
   “You shall strike down the house of Ahab your master, that I may avenge
   the blood of My servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of
   the Lord, at the hand of Jezebel.”
   1 Kings 19:1, 2
   “Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So let the gods do to me,
   and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by
   tomorrow about this time." And when he saw that, he arose and ran for his



Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 136 of 379
   life, and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant
   there.”
 10B Prophetic Jezebel: The apostate harlot church killed many of God’s
  faithful:
   Daniel 7:25
   “He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the
   saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the
   saints shall be given into his hand for a time and times and half a time.”
   Revelation 17:6
   “I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood
   of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with great
   amazement.”
   Revelation 18:24
   “And in her was found the blood of prophets and saints, and of all who
   were slain on the earth."
 11A Historical Jezebel
   Jezebel fed the false prophets of Baal and they did her bidding:
   “Now therefore, send and gather all Israel to me on Mount Carmel, the four
   hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, and the four hundred prophets of
   Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table."
   Jezebel had a daughter who was an image of her mother:
   “With her seductive arts, Jezebel made Jehoshaphat her friend. She
   arranged a marriage between her daughter Athaliah and Jehoram, the son
   of Jehoshaphat. She knew that her daughter, brought up under her
   guidance and as unscrupulous as herself, would carry out her designs.”
   2BC, p. 1038
 11B Prophetic Jezebel: The end time harlot has a false prophet or
  daughters that do her bidding.



Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 137 of 379
   Revelation 16:13
   “And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the
   dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false
   prophet.”
   Revelation 17:5: The harlot has daughters that are the spitting image
   of their mother:
   “And on her forehead a name was written: MYSTERY, BABYLON THE
   GREAT THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE
   EARTH.”
   Revelation 2:23: Jezebel had children who were born from her toward
   the end of the 1260 years who will do her bidding.
   “I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I
   am He who searches the minds and hearts. And I will give to each one of you
   according to your works.”
   John XXIII at the opening of Vatican Council II (1962-1965):
   “. . . She [the Roman Catholic Church] to be an affectionate, kind and
   patient mother, she is moved by compassion and goodness towards her
   alienated children.” (Ernesto Balducci, John: The Transitional Pope,
   transl., Dorothy White [New York: Hill Book Company, 1964], p. 269.
   Words of Pope Paul VI during Vatican Council II:
   “Because of their position, separated brethren are the object of deep and
   tender affection on the part of the Mother Church. . . It is a love that feels
   grief and sadness, the love of a heart wounded by estrangement, because
   the estrangement prevents our brethren from enjoying so many privileges
   and rights, and makes them lose so much grace. But perhaps for this very
   reason its love is all the deeper and more burning. . .” Cardinal Augustin
   Bea, The Unity of Christians, ed., Bernard Leeming [New York: Herder and
   Herder, 1963], p. 140


Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 138 of 379
      “Babylon is said to be ‘the mother of harlots.’ By her daughters must be
      symbolized churches that cling to her doctrines and traditions, and follow
      her example of sacrificing the truth and the approval of God, in order to
      form an unlawful alliance with the world.” GC, pp. 382, 383
      “Then I saw the Mother of Harlots; that the mother was not the daughters,
      but separate and distinct from them. She [the mother] has had her day,
      and it is past, and her daughters, the Protestant sects, were the next to
      come on the stage and act out the same mind that the mother had when
      she persecuted the saints.” Spaulding-Magan Collection, p. 1.

The End Time Elijah

The Elijah of the 1260 years was not the final Elijah. The conclusion of the
story is still in the future. We know this for several reasons:
    At the end of the 1260 years, the civil powers mortally wounded Jezebel
     but did not totally annihilate her.
    The daughters of Jezebel are still alive and well.
    The great and terrible day of the Lord has not yet come.
    God did not yet translate the church to heaven.
We are to expect the final Elijah to complete the story.
Malachi 4:1-6: The two witnesses will rise again, Moses and Elijah:
"For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, and all the proud, yes, all
who do wickedly will be stubble. And the day which is coming shall burn them
up," Says the LORD of hosts, "That will leave them neither root nor branch. 2
However, to you who fear My name the Sun of Righteousness shall arise with
healing in His wings; and you shall go out and grow fat like stall-fed calves. 3 You
shall trample the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet on the
day that I do this," says the LORD of hosts. 4"Remember the Law of Moses, My
servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and
judgments. 5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the
great and dreadful day of the Lord. 6 And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to
the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike
the earth with a curse."


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 139 of 379
Revelation 6:9-11: The post-apostolic church has two stages of existence
because the harlot has two stages of existence.
“When He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had
been slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. 10 And they
cried with a loud voice, saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You judge
and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?" 11 Then a white robe was
given to each of them; and it was said to them that they should rest a little while
longer, until both the number of their fellow servants and their brethren, who
would be killed as they were, was completed.”
The harlot Jezebel has two stages of existence, one past and the other future.
Elijah, Jezebel’s children and Ahab also exist in two stages.
Revelation 2:22: God cast Jezebel into a sickbed and great tribulation in 1798
AD along with those who fornicated with her. The French Revolution was a
cataclysmic event for the papacy.
“Indeed I will cast her into a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her
into great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds.”
The Arndt and Gingrich Greek Lexicon, p. 436 explains that this means ‘to lay
someone on a sickbed i. e. strike her with an illness Rv. 2:22 a lingering illness as
a divine punishment.’
Revelation 13:3: The deadly wound of the papacy will heal and she will rule
for a second stage:
“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly
wound was healed and all the world marveled and followed the beast.”
The Elijah story broadens from Israel to Western Europe during the 1260
years to the world at the end of time.
Revelation 12:17: After the 1260 years, God will raise up an Elijah-like
remnant to proclaim the final message to the world:
“And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the
rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony
of Jesus Christ.”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 140 of 379
After the three and a half times God raised up a people who keep the
commandments of God, have the gift of prophecy, preach true worship to
the creator on His holy Sabbath, restore and proclaim the everlasting gospel,
denounce Babylon and lead the world to take a stand for the seal of God or
the mark of the beast. This end time Elijah will enlighten the world with the
loud cry (Revelation 18:1).

Summary of the Three Woes

Revelation 9:1-11: The fifth trumpet and the first woe.
Revelation 11:2-12: Further expansion of the period of the fifth trumpet and
the first woe.
Revelation 11:13 (the enemies and those who fear God and give Him glory)
then briefly introduces the period of the sixth trumpet.
Revelation 9:13-21: The sixth trumpet and the second woe.
Revelation 10:1-11:1: Further expansion of the sixth trumpet and the
second woe.
Revelation 11:15-17: The seventh trumpet and the third woe. When this
trumpet blows, probation closes, the plagues fall and the second coming of
Jesus occurs.
Revelation 15-19 further expands the third woe.

The Meaning of the word ‘woe’ or ‘alas’
The Greek word ouai is an exclamatory interjection that portends pain,
calamity, suffering and sorrow. The LXX and the New Testament use the word
to describe divine retribution upon those who are unfaithful to the covenant.
In the LXX:
   Isaias 3:11 (an oracle against Jerusalem)
   Jeremiah 4:13 (an oracle against Jerusalem; also Jeremiah 4:30)
   Jeremiah 10:19 (an oracle against Jerusalem)
   Jeremiah 50:27 (an oracle against Babylon)
   Ezekiel 2:10 (an oracle against Jerusalem)
   Nahum 3:1-4 (an oracle against Nineveh)
   Zephaniah 3:1-4 (an oracle against Jerusalem)

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 141 of 379
    Zechariah 11:17 (and oracle against the false shepherds)
In the New Testament:

    Matthew 18:7 (woe to one who mistreats a child)
    Matthew 23:13, 14, 15, 16, 23, 25, 27, 29 (woes on the Scribes and
     Pharisees)
    Matthew 24:19 (woe to those who are alive during the tribulation)
    Matthew 26:24 (woe to the one who betrays the Son of Man)
    Revelation 12:12 (woe to those who dwell on the earth)
    Revelation 18:10, 16, 19 (woes upon the final fall of Babylon)

Textual Location of the Three Woes

Revelation 8:12, 13
“Then the fourth angel sounded: And a third of the sun was struck, a third of the
moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them were darkened. A third of
the day did not shine, and likewise the night. 13 And I looked, and I heard an angel
flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, "Woe, woe, woe to
the inhabitants of the earth, because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of
the three angels who are about to sound!"
Revelation 8:12 describes the end of the fourth trumpet.
Revelation 8:13: When the fourth trumpet has blown, there is an
announcement of three woes to come.
Revelation 9:1-11: The first woe are the events of the fifth trumpet.
Revelation 9:12: When the events of the fifth trumpet conclude the text tells
us that the first woe was finished.
“One woe is past. Behold, still two more woes are coming after these things.”
Revelation 9:13-21: A description of the sixth trumpet. When this trumpet
concludes in verse 21 there is no reference to the second woe passing (this
seems to indicate that chapters 10 and 11 will have more to say about the
period of the sixth trumpet).




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 142 of 379
Revelation 10:1-11:13: This passage further amplifies certain aspects of the
periods of the fourth, fifth and sixth trumpets:
   Revelation 11:2-6 takes us back to period of the 1260 years (538-
    1798: the fourth trumpet)
   Revelation 11:7-10 describes the French Revolution when the two
    witnesses were killed (1793-1797: the fifth trumpet and the first woe)
   Revelation 11:11-12 describes the resurrection of the two witnesses
    after the French Revolution. They no longer testify in sackcloth but rather
    enjoy great power and prestige. This miraculous resurrection of the Bible
    not only describes the establishment of multiple Bible societies in the
    aftermath of the French Revolution; it also portrays the great Advent
    Awakening and the renewed study of Bible prophecy because the little
    book of Daniel was opened at the time of the end and knowledge of
    prophecy increased.
   Revelation 11:13 introduces the two groups that will exist in the end
    time:
     The first group are the enemies of the two witnesses. The enemies were
     two. The previous context identifies the first enemy as the Gentiles. The
     second enemy is the beast from the bottomless pit.
     Revelation uses the word ‘enemies’ only twice and both references are
     in chapter 11 (verses 5 and 12). In the first instance, the enemies
     obscured the two witnesses (by forbidding the Bible) during the 1260
     years. In the second instance, the enemies killed the two witnesses at
     the end of the same period.
     The second group is the remnant who fear God and give glory to Him,
     a clear literary link to the three angels’ messages (Revelation 14:7; Luke
     7:16; Acts 2:43; Acts 13:16; 19:17, 18; 2 Corinthians 7:1; Revelation
     11:18; 15:4).
   Revelation 11:14: After the resurrection of the Bible and the mention of
    the enemies and the remnant, the text tells us that the second woe is
    past.

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 143 of 379
     “The second woe is past. Behold, the third woe is coming quickly.”
   The sixth trumpet presents the negative side (the perspective of the
    enemies) of end time events and Revelation 10 presents the positive
    side (the perspective of the remnant) of the same period.
     Expressed another way, the sixth trumpet describes the attitude of the
     enemies of the two witnesses in the end time while Revelation 10
     describes the attitude of the faithful remnant during the same period.
   The sixth trumpet carries us from 1844 all the way to the close of
    probation when the mystery of God is finished (Revelation 10:7). This
    occurs when the seventh trumpet is about to sound. When the seventh
    trumpet sounds, Jesus takes over the kingdoms of the world at His
    coming. The blast of the seventh trumpet is the third woe.

Perspective of Revelation 12

Revelation 12 provides a recapitulation and further amplification of the
periods of the fourth, fifth and sixth trumpets.
      This chapter begins with the 1260-year period (the fourth trumpet).
      The chapter continues with the period when the earth helped the
       woman (the period during which the deadly wound is kept in place by
       the civil powers of the world).
      The end of the chapter describes the same two groups that
       Revelation 11:13 introduced: the enemies and the remnant. The
       remnant of the woman’s seed (the remnant of Jesus) keeps the
       commandments of God while the other group (the enemies) manifests
       the wrath of the dragon (Revelation 12:17).
      Revelation 12:17 is a further description of the two groups that exist
       during the period of the sixth trumpet.

Perspective of Revelation 13

Revelation 13 provides a further amplification of the fourth, fifth and sixth
trumpets:


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 144 of 379
    Revelation 13:1-8 describes the 1260 years (the fourth trumpet)
     when the beast persecuted the saints of the Most High (notably
     described as 42 months thus linking it with Revelation 11:2).
    Revelation 13:9 portrays the deadly wound that was given to the
     papacy with the sword beginning in 1793 and culminating in 1798
     (the fifth trumpet and the first woe).
    Revelation 13:11-18 then describes the end time conflict between
     those who worship the beast and his image and receive his mark (the
     enemies) and those who receive the seal of God (those who fear God
     and give Him glory.
    The 144,000 of Revelation 14:1-5 stand in contrast to the apostate
     worshipers in the previous chapter. This period of the sixth trumpet,
     culminates with the second woe.




       See Revelation 12-22 Chart
                        On Next Page




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 145 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 146 of 379
The Perspective of Revelation 14

In Revelation 14:6-13, the fourth and fifth trumpets have faded from view
(because the 1260 years and the French Revolution are in the past at this point).
The emphasis now will fall upon the message that the remnant will proclaim
while the sixth trumpet is blowing. This is the ‘prophesying again’ of
Revelation 10:11.
In other words, Revelation 14:6-13 takes us back to the time when the
remnant began to proclaim first angel’s message to the world (beginning in
1798) after the fifth trumpet and first woe ended in 1798.
This is the period when the two witnesses resurrected and no longer gave
their testimony in sackcloth (after 1798 when the God removed the seal from
the book of Daniel and the time of the end began).
While the sixth trumpet is blowing, the world polarizes into two groups,
those who have the seal of God and those who receive the mark of the beast
(Revelation 14:9-11). Those who have the mark of the beast are in verses 9-11
and those who have the seal of God are in verse 12.
When the three angels’ messages have divided the world into two groups, the
mystery of God finishes followed shortly thereafter by the sounding of the
seventh trumpet. Revelation 14:14-20 describes this as the harvest of the
earth and the grapes of the earth being ripe. At this point the remnant is inside
spiritual Jerusalem while the enemies gather on the outside intent on
destroying the remnant (Revelation 14:18-20; see the background of Joel 3).
Notably, Revelation 16:14 portrays the negative side where three counterfeit
angels go to the kings of the earth and the whole world to gather them in
apostasy against God for a final battle against God’s people! Thus the sixth
trumpet (Revelation 9:13-21) describes the gathering of the wicked forces
against God’s people and Revelation 10 and 14:6-13 describes the gathering of
God’s people by the three angels’ messages.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 147 of 379
Ellen White on the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Trumpets

The First Trumpet (GC p. 17-38):
As noted previously, Ellen White began the book The Great Controversy with the
chapter titled “The Destruction of Jerusalem.” We have already shown that this
historical event fulfilled the first trumpet.
The Second Trumpet (GC p. 39-49):
The second chapter of The Great Controversy bears the title, “Persecution in the
Early Centuries.” Ellen White here describes the persecution of Christians by the
Roman Empire and then briefly describes the removal of its restraining
influence:
“The spirit of compromise and conformity was restrained for a time by the fierce
persecutions which the church endured under paganism [the Roman Empire].”
GC p. 49
The second trumpet certainly includes the incursion of the barbarian tribes
into the Roman Empire because they were the catalyst that to the removal of
the restrainer.
It is noteworthy that Uriah Smith dedicated the first four trumpets to the
barbarian invasions and even mentions some or the barbarian leaders by name.
However, Ellen White never mentions the barbarian invasions directly in The
Great Controversy. If the invasions merited four trumpets, why did she not
mention them directly, even once? However, she was aware of the breakup of
the Roman Empire as we can see from the following quotation:
“The vast empire of Rome crumbled to pieces, and from its ruins rose that
mighty power, the Roman Catholic Church. This church boasts of her infallibility
and her hereditary religion.” RH, February 6, 1900
The Third Trumpet (GC p. 49-60):
The title of the third chapter of The Great Controversy is, “An Era of Spiritual
Darkness”. In this chapter, Ellen White describes how the disintegration of the
Roman Empire led to incipient apostasy and eventually to the rise of the
papacy.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 148 of 379
The barbarian invasions brought chaos and disorder to the Empire and as a
result, the people sought someone who could bring about order. That someone
was the Bishop of Rome. Thus, while one Rome fell, the other rose to power.
The barbarian invasions, which led to the fall of pagan Rome, provided the
papacy with the excellent opportunity to bring about order and take over the
reins of the disintegrated Empire. The fourth trumpet marks the beginning of
the period of papal supremacy. Regarding this, Ellen White stated:
“In the sixth century the papacy had become firmly established. Its seat of power
was fixed in the imperial city, and the bishop of Rome was declared to be the head
over the entire church. Paganism had given place to the papacy. The dragon
had given to the beast "his power, and his seat, and great authority." Revelation
13:2. Then began the 1260 years of papal oppression foretold in the
prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation. Daniel 7:25; Revelation 13:5-7.” GC p. 54
During this period, a fallen star poisoned the waters. As we have seen, the star
represents the church that became the vice-gerent of Satan and defiled the
pure teachings of Jesus Christ. Notably after Ellen White described the
accession of the papacy to power, she then went on to delineate the errors
(the pollutants) that this apostate power introduced.
The Fourth Trumpet (GC p. 55-264):
The apostasy under the third trumpet intensified as the Dark Ages transpired.
Under the fourth trumpet the sun, the moon and the stars experienced a
partial eclipse. As we have already noted, the sun represents Jesus (the Greater
Light), the moon represents the Bible (the lesser light) and the stars symbolize
God’s people.
“The accession of the Roman Church to power marked the beginning of the Dark
Ages. As her power increased, the darkness deepened.” GC p. 55
During this period, the church had to present the testimony of the two
witnesses (described as the two candlesticks) in sackcloth (darkness,
obscurity) or exile. Regarding this period, Ellen White wrote:
“In order for Satan to maintain his sway over men, and establish the authority of
the papal usurper, he must keep them in ignorance of the Scriptures. The Bible
would exalt God and place finite men in their true position, therefore its sacred

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 149 of 379
truths must be concealed and suppressed. The Roman Church adopted this
policy. For hundreds of years the circulation of the Bible was prohibited. The
people were forbidden to read it or to have it in their houses and unprincipled
priests and prelates interpreted its teachings to sustain their pretensions. Thus
the pope came to be almost universally acknowledged as the vicegerent of God on
earth, endowed with authority over church and state.” GC p. 51
After this quotation, Ellen White (in GC p. 53-60) goes on to describe all the
errors and heresies that entered the church during the period of the dark
ages. She identifies darkness as the prevalence of heresy and error. It bears
noting, however, that the eclipse of the Scriptures and the work of Christ during
this period was partial as indicated by the expression ‘one third’.
Ellen White described darkness as ‘heresy’ and ‘error’:
“In the work of educating the youth in our schools, it will be a difficult matter to
retain the influence of God's Holy Spirit, and at the same time hold fast to
erroneous principles. The light shining upon those who have eyes to see, cannot
be mingled with the darkness of heresy and error found in many of the text-
books recommended to the students in our colleges.” CE, p. 98
The title of the next chapter in The Great Controversy is, ‘The Waldenses’ where
she describes how these valiant people had to spread the Scriptures in exile or
sackcloth. Repeatedly in this chapter, Ellen White uses words that describe
light and darkness and refers to the faithful with the word ‘witness’:
“Satan had urged on the papal priests and prelates to bury the Word of truth
beneath the rubbish of error, heresy, and superstition, but in a most wonderful
manner it was preserved uncorrupted through all the ages of darkness.” GC p.
68
“As the light illuminated their understanding and made glad their hearts, they
longed to shed its beams upon those who were in the darkness of papal error. GC
p. 72
“Amid the gloom that settled upon the earth during the long period of papal
supremacy, the light of truth could not be wholly extinguished [the heavenly
bodies were only partially obscured in the fourth trumpet]. In every age,
there were witnesses for God—men who cherished faith in Christ [the Greater

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 150 of 379
Light] as the only mediator between God and man, who held the Bible [the
lesser light] as the only rule of life, and who hallowed the true Sabbath. How
much the world owes to these men, posterity will never know. They were branded
as heretics, their motives impugned, their characters maligned, their writings
suppressed, misrepresented, or mutilated [prophesying in sackcloth]. Yet they
stood firm, and from age to age maintained their faith in its purity, as a sacred
heritage for the generations to come. GC p. 61
“Behind the lofty bulwarks of the mountains--in all ages the refuge of the
persecuted and oppressed—the Waldenses found a hiding place. Here the
light of truth was kept burning amid the darkness of the middle Ages. Here, for
a thousand years, witnesses for the truth maintained the ancient faith. GC p. 65,
66
“In the schools whither they went, they were not to make confidants of any. Their
garments were so prepared as to conceal their greatest treasure—the precious
manuscripts of the Scriptures. These, the fruit of months and years of toil, they
carried with them, and whenever they could do so without exciting suspicion, they
cautiously placed some portion in the way of those whose hearts seemed open to
receive the truth.” GC p. 70
“They secretly carried about with them copies of the Bible, in whole or in part;
and whenever an opportunity was presented, they called the attention of their
customers to these manuscripts. Often an interest to read God's word was thus
awakened, and some portion was gladly left with those who desired to receive it.”
GC p. 71
“It was his greatest joy to give hope to the conscientious, sin-stricken soul, who
could see only a God of vengeance, waiting to execute justice. With quivering lip
and tearful eye did he, often on bended knees, open to his brethren the precious
promises that reveal the sinner's only hope. Thus the light of truth penetrated
many a darkened mind, rolling back the cloud of gloom, until the Sun of
Righteousness shone into the heart with healing in His beams.” GC pp. 73, 74
“They were hunted to death; yet their blood watered the seed sown, and it failed
not of yielding fruit. Thus, the Waldenses witnessed for God centuries before the
birth of Luther. Scattered over many lands, they planted the seeds of the
Reformation that began in the time of Wycliffe, grew broad and deep in the days

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 151 of 379
of Luther, and is to be carried forward to the close of time by those who also are
willing to suffer all things for "the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus
Christ." Revelation 1:9 [notice this text in the light of the two witnesses].” GC p. 78
The next chapter is on John Wycliffe. Ellen White begins the chapter by
appealing once more to the metaphor of light and darkness:
“Except among the Waldenses, the word of God had for ages been locked up in
languages known only to the learned; but the time had come for the Scriptures to
be translated and given to the people of different lands in their native tongue. The
world had passed its midnight. The hours of darkness were wearing away, and
in many lands appeared tokens of the coming dawn.” GC p. 79
The next chapter is on Huss and Jerome. I will provide only one statement
where Ellen White expounds upon the theme of light and darkness in this
chapter:
“God permitted great light to shine upon the minds of these chosen men,
revealing to them many of the errors of Rome; but they did not receive all the
light that was to be given to the world. Through these, His servants, God was
leading the people out of the darkness of Romanism; but there were many and
great obstacles for them to meet, and He led them on, step by step, as they could
bear it. They were not prepared to receive all the light at once. Like the full glory
of the noontide sun to those who have long dwelt in darkness, it would, if
presented, have caused them to turn away. Therefore, He revealed it to the leaders
little by little, as the people could receive it. From century to century, other faithful
workers were to follow, to lead the people on still further in the path of reform.”
GC p. 103
In the first paragraph of the first chapter on the work of Martin Luther, Ellen
White once again underlined the theme of light and darkness:
“Foremost among those who were called to lead the church from the darkness of
popery into the light of a purer faith, stood Martin Luther. Zealous, ardent, and
devoted, knowing no fear but the fear of God, and acknowledging no foundation
for religious faith but the Holy Scriptures, Luther was the man for his time;
through him God accomplished a great work for the reformation of the church
and the enlightenment of the world.” GC p. 120


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 152 of 379
In the next several chapters, Ellen White describes the Protestant
Reformation in the various countries of Europe and repeatedly appeals to the
metaphor of light and darkness.
The Fifth Trumpet and the first woe (GC p. 265-288)
As we shall see later on in this study (when we study Revelation 11:2-12), both
the Bible and the Spirit of Prophecy clearly indicate that the French
Revolution fulfilled the fifth trumpet and the first woe.
The Sixth Trumpet and the second woe (GC pp. 299-612)
The sixth trumpet and the second woe give us a view of the righteous and a
view of the wicked.
    GC p. 299-491: Emphasis on the righteous and God’s gathering message.
    GC p. 500-612: Emphasis on the wicked and Satan’s gathering errors.
Immediately after the chapter on the French Revolution Ellen White goes back
in time to 1620 AD and describes the arrival of the Pilgrim Fathers in America
searching for civil and religious liberty (GC p. 289-298). This prepared a place
for the preaching of the three angel’s messages with power to the world thus
gathering of God’s people.
Notably, Revelation 12 describes how the dragon was spewing waters out of
his mouth during the 1260 years with the intention of drowning the woman.
However, the text tells us that the earth came to her rescue and swallowed up
the waters of persecution. The ‘earth’ here refers to the territory of the United
States that provided refuge for those who were suffering persecution in
Europe. The United States became the beacon for other western nations to
establish secular governments. Thus, James Madison wrote in 1822:
“We are teaching the world the great truth that Governments do better without
Kings and Nobles than with them [republicanism]. The merit will be doubled by
the other lesson that Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the
aid of Government [Protestantism].” James Madison, Letter to Edward
Livingston, July 10, 1822; Gaillard Hunt, The Writings of James Madison.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 153 of 379
It is remarkable that both Revelation 12 and Ellen White describe the 1260
years, the French Revolution and then go back in time to describe the arrival
of the Pilgrims.
In the following chapters, Ellen White wrote about the Great Second Advent
Awakening after 1798, the Millerite Movement, the Great Disappointment
and the opening of the heavenly temple for the judgment.
The following chapters describe the resurrection of the two witnesses and
the opening of the little book of Daniel in Revelation 10. This is the positive
side of the sixth trumpet. God musters His forces with His three angels’
messages to gather His remnant on His side:
    ‘Heralds of the Morning’ (GC, pp. 299-316):
      The signs in the sun, moon and stars as an announcement of the coming
      message of judgment and the second coming.
    ‘An American Reformer’ (GC, pp. 317-342):
      The call of William Miller and his intense study of Bible prophecy. The
      two witnesses have resurrected at this point and the Millerites and others
      study and proclaim the Bible prophecies.
    ‘Light through Darkness’ (GC 343-354):
      The disciples’ misunderstanding of prophecies concerning the first
      coming sets the stage to explain the misunderstanding of prophecies
      regarding the judgment hour message in 1844.
    ‘A Great Religious Awakening’ (GC, pp. 355-374):
      The proclamation of the first angel’s message by Joseph Wolff in Asia, by
      seven hundred Anglican ministers in England, Emanuel Lacunza in
      South America, Johann Albrecht Bengel in Germany, Francois Samuel
      Robert Louis Gaussen in Switzerland, child preachers in Scandinavia
      and William Miller and his associates in North America. This is a vivid
      description of the resurrection of the two witnesses in the time of the end.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 154 of 379
 ‘A Warning Rejected’ (GC, pp. 375-390):
   The proclamation of the second angel’s message because the first
   message was rejected by the Protestant churches. The fall apostate
   Protestantism leading up to 1844 follows the final and irrevocable fall
   of Roman Catholicism in 1798. Not yet at this point, however, was
   Babylon filled with demons. This will happen in the future under the
   proclamation of the Loud Cry. Revelation 18:2, 3 describes the time
   during the sixth trumpet when the fall of Babylon is complete and the
   demons come forth unrestrained from the bottomless pit. This is the
   bizarre imagery that appears in the sixth trumpet (Revelation 9:13-21).
 ‘Prophecies Fulfilled’ (GC, pp. 391-408):
   A series of prophecies that pointed to the Great Advent Awakening in
   the 1840’s.
 ‘What Is the Sanctuary?’ (GC, pp. 409-422):
   An introduction to the sanctuary service with a view to discuss the
   investigative judgment in the most holy place in 1844.
 ‘In the Holy of Holies’ (GC, pp. 423-432):
   The opening of the most holy place for the judgment in 1844.
 ‘God's Law Immutable’ (GC, pp. 433-450):
   The remnant understood the importance of the law when the most holy
   place opened in 1844.
 ‘A Work of Reform’ (GC, pp. 451-460):
   When the most holy place opened in 1844, the remnant perceived the
   importance of the Sabbath.
 ‘Modern Revivals’ (GC, pp. 461-478):
   Ellen White discussed how to distinguish a counterfeit revival from a
   genuine one.




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 155 of 379
    ‘Facing Life's Record’ (GC, pp. 479-491):
      A description of the Investigative Judgment that began in 1844.
After describing how God raised up a remnant with a special message for the
world in the end time, she shifts the emphasis to the deceptions of Satan who
will gather the wicked for the final battle through the three counterfeit angels’
messages. Thus, immediately after the chapter on the French Revolution Ellen
White describes how the battle lines will form for the final conflict.
We can make a strong argument that the following chapters in The Great
Controversy all describe the period of the sixth trumpet. The sixth trumpet
presents a view of the wicked in Revelation 9:13-21 and a view of the
righteous in Revelation 10 and 14:6-13. These are the same two groups that
Revelation 11:13 describes as the enemies and the remnant and those who
fear God and gives Him glory.
    The Origin of Evil (GC, pp. 492-504)
    Enmity Between Man and Satan (GC, pp. 505-510)
    Agency of Evil Spirits (GC, pp. 511-517)
    Snares of Satan (GC, pp. 518-530)
    The First Great Deception (GC, pp. 531-550)
    Can Our Dead Speak to Us? (GC, pp. 551-562)
    Liberty of Conscience Threatened (GC, pp. 563-581)
    The Impending Conflict (GC, pp. 582-592)
    The Scriptures a Safeguard (GC, pp. 593-602)
    The Final Warning (GC, pp. 603-612)
Regarding the gathering of the righteous and the wicked in Revelation 10, Ellen
White wrote:
“The mighty angel who instructed John was no less a personage than Jesus Christ.
Setting His right foot on the sea, and His left upon the dry land, shows the part
which He is acting in the closing scenes of the great controversy with Satan.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 156 of 379
This position denotes His supreme power and authority over the whole earth. The
controversy had waxed stronger and more determined from age to age, and will
continue to do so, to the concluding scenes when the masterly working of the
powers of darkness shall reach their height. Satan, united with evil men, will
deceive the whole world and the churches who receive not the love of the truth.
However, the mighty angel demands attention. He cries with a loud voice. He is
to show the power and authority of His voice to those who have united with
Satan to oppose the truth. 7BC p. 971
“Satan has been persevering and untiring in his efforts to prosecute the work he
began in heaven, to change the law of God. He has succeeded in making the world
believe the theory he presented in heaven before his fall, that the law of God was
faulty, and needed revising. A large part of the professed Christian church, by their
attitude, if not by their words, show that they have accepted the same error.
However, if in one jot or tittle the law of God has been changed, Satan has gained
on earth that which he could not gain in heaven. He has prepared his delusive
snare, hoping to take captive the church and the world. However, not all will
be taken in the snare. A line of distinction is being drawn between the children
of obedience and the children of disobedience, the loyal and true and the
disloyal and untrue. Two great parties are developed, the worshipers of the
beast and his image, and the worshipers of the true and living God.” 2SM, p. 107
Ellen White immediately goes on to speak about the angel of Revelation 10 and
its connection with the first angel of Revelation 14:
“The message of Revelation 14, proclaiming that the hour of God's judgment is
come, is given in the time of the end; and the angel of Revelation 10 is represented
as having one foot on the sea and one foot on the land, showing that the message
will be carried to distant lands, the ocean will be crossed, and the islands of the
sea will hear the proclamation of the last message of warning to our world.”
Ellen White then goes on to explain the meaning of time being no longer:
"And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his
hand to heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created
heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein
are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no
longer" (Rev. 10:5, 6). This message announces the end of the prophetic periods.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 157 of 379
The disappointment of those who expected to see our Lord in 1844 was indeed
bitter to those who had so ardently looked for His appearing. It was in the
Lord's order that this disappointment should come, and that hearts should be
revealed.” 2SM, pp. 107, 108
In GC p. 603, 604 Ellen White describes the final unleashing of the satanic
powers in the end time under the sixth trumpet:
“This scripture [Revelation 18:1-5] points forward to a time when the
announcement of the fall of Babylon, as made by the second angel of Revelation
14 (verse 8), is to be repeated, with the additional mention of the corruptions
which have been entering the various organizations that constitute Babylon, since
that message was first given, in the summer of 1844. A terrible condition of the
religious world is here described. With every rejection of truth the minds of the
people will become darker, their hearts more stubborn, until they are
entrenched in an infidel hardihood. In defiance of the warnings which God has
given, they will continue to trample upon one of the precepts of the Decalogue,
until they are led to persecute those who hold it sacred. Christ is set at nought in
the contempt placed upon His word and His people. As the teachings of
spiritualism are accepted by the churches, the restraint imposed upon the
carnal heart is removed, and the profession of religion will become a cloak to
conceal the basest iniquity. A belief in spiritual manifestations opens the door to
seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, and thus the influence of evil angels
will be felt in the churches.” GC, p. 603
“We cannot know how much we owe to Christ for the peace and protection which
we enjoy. It is the restraining power of God that prevents mankind from passing
fully under the control of Satan. The disobedient and unthankful have great
reason for gratitude for God's mercy and long-suffering in holding in check the
cruel, malignant power of the evil one. However, when men pass the limits of
divine forbearance, that restraint is removed. God does not stand toward the
sinner as an executioner of the sentence against transgression; but he leaves the
rejecters of his mercy to themselves, to reap that which they have sown. Every ray
of light rejected, every warning despised or unheeded, every passion indulged,
every transgression of the law of God, is a seed sown, which yields its unfailing
harvest. The Spirit of God, persistently resisted, is at last withdrawn from the


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 158 of 379
sinner, and then there is left no power to control the evil passions of the soul,
and no protection from the malice and enmity of Satan.” GC p. 36
Probation closes when the seventh trumpet is about (Revelation 10:7) to
sound. The chapter that deals with the close of the mystery of God (when the
seventh trumpet is about to sound) is in GC p. 613, 614 at the beginning of the
chapter titled: ‘The time of Trouble’. Ellen White begins this chapter by
commenting about the close of probation:
“When the third angel's message closes, mercy no longer pleads for the guilty
inhabitants of the earth. The people of God have accomplished their work. They
have received ‘the latter rain,’ ‘the refreshing from the presence of the Lord,’ and
they are prepared for the trying hour before them. Angels are hastening to and
fro in heaven. An angel returning from the earth announces that his work is done;
the final test has been brought upon the world, and all who have proved
themselves loyal to the divine precepts have received ‘the seal of the living God.’
Then Jesus ceases His intercession in the sanctuary above. He lifts His hands and
with a loud voice says, ‘It is done;’ and all the angelic host lay off their crowns as
He makes the solemn announcement: ‘He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and
he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be
righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.’ Revelation 22:11. Every
case has been decided for life or death. Christ has made the atonement for His
people and blotted out their sins. The number of His subjects is made up; ‘the
kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole
heaven,’ is about to be given to the heirs of salvation, and Jesus is to reign as King
of kings and Lord of lords [Revelation 11:15]. GC pp. 613, 614
The Seventh Trumpet and the Third Woe (GC, pp. 613-661)
Revelation 10:7 explains that the mystery of God finishes shortly before the
blowing of the seventh trumpet so the sixth trumpet must blow during
probationary time and it must describe the gathering of the wicked for the
final battle against God’s people.
The seventh trumpet must be the third woe. Revelation 18:10, 16, 19
actually uses the word ‘woe’ to describe the final fall of Babylon when God
punishes her with the seven last plagues as Jesus removes the kingdom from
the hands of Satan.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 159 of 379
Ellen White helps us locate the timeframe of the fifth trumpet

The key to understanding the fifth trumpet is in the details of Revelation 9.
A fallen star rises from the bottomless pit and his name is Abaddon in Hebrew
and Apollyon in Greek. Both of these words mean ‘the destroyer’.
    This star is the leader of a vast host of locusts who have the tails of
     scorpions that come out of the bottomless pit and cause a dense
     darkness.
    This star did not fall at the time of the fifth trumpet. There is a
     distinction between Revelation 8:10 where John saw a star fall (second
     aorist, active, indicative in Greek) from heaven and Revelation 9:1
     where the NIV correctly translates the tense of the verb (perfect, active
     participle), ‘I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth.” That is
     to say, this star had already fallen when the fifth trumpet sounded.
    Revelation 11 explains the chronological time frame when the shaft of
     the abyss was opened during the fifth trumpet to release this hoard of
     demons:
      Revelation 11:7-9
      “Now when they finish their [the two witnesses in sackcloth] testimony,
      the beast that ascends out of the bottomless pit will make war against
      them, overcome them, and kill them [total darkness ensues]. And their
      dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city which spiritually is called
      Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.”
    Ellen White adds some clarifying information on when the shaft of the
     bottomless pit was opened when the fifth trumpet blew:
      “As they [the two witnesses] were approaching the termination of their
      work in obscurity [because the sun, moon and stars were partially
      eclipsed], war was to be made upon them by the power represented as ‘the
      beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit.’ In many of the nations of
      Europe, the powers that ruled in church and state had for centuries been
      controlled by Satan through the medium of the papacy. However, here

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 160 of 379
   is brought to view a new manifestation of satanic power.” GC pp. 268,
   269
 Ellen White clearly links the fourth trumpet (the work of the papacy
  during the 1260 years) and fifth trumpet (the French Revolution):
   “It was popery that had begun the work which atheism was completing.
   The policy of Rome had wrought out those conditions, social, political, and
   religious, that were hurrying France on to ruin.” GC p. 276
   “It had been Rome's policy, under a profession of reverence for the Bible, to
   keep it locked up in an unknown tongue and hidden away from the
   people. Under her rule, the witnesses prophesied ‘clothed in sackcloth.’
   However, another power—another beast from the bottomless pit—was
   to arise to make open, avowed war upon the word of God.” GC p. 26
   “According to the words of the prophet, then, a little before the year 1798
   some power of satanic origin and character would rise to make war upon
   the Bible. And in the land where the testimony of God's two witnesses should
   thus be silenced, there would be manifest the atheism of the Pharaoh and
   the licentiousness of Sodom.” GC p. 269
 A striking parallel to what occurred in France transpired in the
  destruction of Jerusalem. The Jewish nation rejected the light and
  embraced the darkness (see John 1:5-11):
   “Then God withdrew His protection from them and removed His
   restraining power from Satan and his angels, and the nation was left to
   the control of the leader she had chosen. Her children had spurned the
   grace of Christ, which would have enabled them to subdue their evil
   impulses, and now these became the conquerors. Satan aroused the
   fiercest and most debased passions of the soul. Men did not reason; they
   were beyond reason—controlled by impulse and blind rage. They became
   satanic in their cruelty. In the family and in the nation, among the highest
   and the lowest classes alike, there was suspicion, envy, hatred, strife,
   rebellion, murder. There was no safety anywhere. Friends and kindred
   betrayed one another. Parents slew their children and children their
   parents. The rulers of the people had no power to rule themselves.

Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 161 of 379
   Uncontrolled passions made them tyrants. The Jews had accepted false
   testimony to condemn the innocent Son of God. Now false accusations made
   their own lives uncertain. By their actions, they had long been saying cause
   the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.’ Isaiah 30:11. Now God
   granted their desire. The fear of God no longer disturbed them. Satan was
   at the head of the nation, and the highest civil and religious authorities
   were under his sway. GC p. 28
 “When France publicly rejected God and set aside the Bible, wicked men
  and spirits of darkness exulted in their attainment of the object so long
  desired—a kingdom free from the restraints of the law of God . . . Centuries
  of apostasy [the fourth trumpet] and crime had been treasuring up
  wrath against the day of retribution; and when their iniquity was full, the
  despisers of God learned too late that it is a fearful thing to have worn out
  the divine patience. The restraining Spirit of God, which imposes a check
  upon the cruel power of Satan, was in a great measure removed [by
  the angel who had the key to the bottomless pit; the fifth trumpet], and
  he whose only delight is the wretchedness of men was permitted to work
  his will. Those who had chosen the service of rebellion were left to reap its
  fruits until the land was filled with crimes too horrible for pen to trace.
  From devastated provinces and ruined cities a terrible cry was heard—a
  cry of bitterest anguish. France was shaken as if by an earthquake.
  Religion, law, social order, the family, the state, and the church were
  smitten down by the impious hand that had been lifted against the law of
  God.” GC p. 286
   Ellen White linked the fourth and fifth trumpets:
   “In the sixteenth century the Reformation, presenting an open Bible to the
   people, had sought admission to all the countries of Europe. Some nations
   welcomed it with gladness, as a messenger of Heaven. In other lands, the
   papacy succeeded to a great extent in preventing its entrance; and the light
   of Bible knowledge, with its elevating influences, was almost wholly
   excluded. In one country, though the light found entrance, it was not
   comprehended by the darkness. For centuries, truth and error struggled
   for the mastery. At last the evil triumphed, and the truth of Heaven was


Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 162 of 379
   thrust out. "This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world,
   and men loved darkness rather than light." John 3:19. The nation was left
   to reap the results of the course that she had chosen. The restraint of God's
   Spirit was removed [God released Satan and his hosts from the
   bottomless pit and they exerted full control in France like in the
   destruction of Jerusalem] from a people that had despised the gift of His
   grace. Evil was permitted to come to maturity. And all the world saw the
   fruit of willful rejection of the light.” GC p. 265
   “The war against the Bible, carried forward for so many centuries in
   France, culminated in the scenes of the Revolution. That terrible
   outbreaking was but the legitimate result of Rome's suppression of the
   Scriptures. It presented the most striking illustration that the world has
   ever witnessed of the working out of the papal policy—an illustration of the
   results to which for more than a thousand years the teaching of the Roman
   Church had been tending.” GC p. 265
   “During the greater part of this period [the 1260 years], God's witnesses
   remained in a state of obscurity [darkness]. The papal power sought to
   hide from the people the word of truth, and set before them false
   witnesses to contradict its testimony. When the Bible was proscribed by
   religious and secular authority; when its testimony was perverted, and
   every effort made that men and demons could invent to turn the minds of
   the people from it; when those who dared proclaim its sacred truths were
   hunted, betrayed, tortured, buried in dungeon cells, martyred for their
   faith or compelled to flee to mountain fastnesses, and to dens and caves of
   the earth--then the faithful witnesses prophesied in sackcloth. Yet they
   continued their testimony throughout the entire period of 1260 years. In
   the darkest times there were faithful men who loved God's word and were
   jealous for His honor. To these loyal servants were given wisdom, power,
   and authority to declare His truth during the whole of this time.” GC p. 267,
   68




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 163 of 379
The Binding and Unbinding of Satan

Matthew 12:29
“But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God has come
upon you.”
Jesus cast out demons by the Spirit of God or finger of God (Luke 11:20). By
doing this, Jesus was giving indications that the ruler would be cast out and this
happened when Jesus died on the cross (John 12:31-33). At the cross, Jesus
cast out the devil as the ruler of this world and on the Day of Pentecost, he
sent His disciples to plunder the kingdom of Satan. Luke 10:18 makes it clear
that Jesus gave the disciples permission to trample on scorpions after the Day
of Pentecost.
“In the conflict of Christ with Satan in the wilderness of temptation the destiny of
the human race was at stake. However, Christ was conqueror, and the tempter left
him for a season. He had now returned for the last fearful conflict. Satan had
been preparing for this final trial during the three years of Christ's ministry.
Everything was at stake with him. If he failed here his hope of mastery was lost;
the kingdoms of the earth would finally become Christ's who would ‘bind the
strong man’ (Satan), and cast him out.” 3SP, p. 96
Romans 10:7
“Who will descend into the abyss? That is, to bring Christ up from the dead.”
While Jesus was dead, the fetters of the tomb (the abyss) bound Him. He could
do no work. However, He did not go literally to the deep or the abyss! This is
metaphorical language.
Luke 8:30, 31
“Jesus asked him, saying, ‘What is your name?’ And he said, ‘Legion,’ because
many demons had entered him. 31 And they begged Him that He would not
command them to go out into the abyss.”
The demons at Gadara requested that Jesus not send them to the abyss. This
does not mean that Jesus was going to send them to a place with literal bars
and chains. They requested that Jesus would not prevent them from


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 164 of 379
working. Revelation 20 defines the word ‘deep’ as not having anyone to tempt.
In other words, the demons did not want Jesus to curtail their ability to work
on earth.
Matthew 8:29
“And suddenly they cried out, saying, "What have we to do with You, Jesus, You
Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?"
Ellen White wrote some choice statements on the binding and unbinding of
Satan and his angels from the abyss:
“All Heaven rejoiced when Christ rose from the dead. He had power to bind the
strong man, and to despoil him of his goods.” ST, September 23, 1889
“All heaven is working to resist Satan's power, to bind the strong man. The angels
of God are working to put restrictions upon the power of the enemy until man
shall be fully tested and tried.” 18MR p. 354
“Mercy had ceased its pleadings for the guilty race. The beasts of the field and the
birds of the air had entered the place of refuge. Noah and his household were
within the ark, ‘and the Lord shut him in’ . . . The massive door, which it was
impossible for those within to close, was slowly swung to its place by unseen
hands. Noah was shut in, and the rejecters of God's mercy were shut out. The seal
of Heaven was on that door; God had shut it, and God alone could open it. Likewise,
when Christ shall cease His intercession for guilty men, before His coming in the
clouds of heaven, the door of mercy will be shut. Then divine grace will no longer
restrain the wicked, and Satan will have full control of those who have rejected
mercy. They will endeavor to destroy God's people; but as Noah was shut into the
ark, so the righteous will be shielded by divine power.” CC p. 39
“When He leaves the sanctuary, darkness covers the inhabitants of the earth. In
that fearful time the righteous must live in the sight of a holy God without an
intercessor. The restraint that has been upon the wicked is removed, and
Satan has entire control of the finally impenitent. God's long-suffering has
ended. The world has rejected His mercy, despised His love, and trampled upon
His law. The wicked have passed the boundary of their probation; the Spirit of
God, persistently resisted, has been at last withdrawn. Unsheltered by divine
grace, they have no protection from the wicked one. Satan will then plunge the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 165 of 379
inhabitants of the earth into one great, final trouble. As the angels of God cease
to hold in check the fierce winds of human passion, all the elements of strife
will be let loose. The whole world will be involved in ruin more terrible than that
which came upon Jerusalem of old.” GC p. 614
“Four mighty angels are still holding the four winds of the earth. Terrible
destruction is forbidden to come in full. The accidents by land and by sea; the
loss of life, steadily increasing, by storm, by tempest, by railroad disaster, by
conflagration; the terrible floods, the earthquakes, and the winds will be the
stirring up of the nations to one deadly combat, while the angels hold the four
winds, forbidding the terrible power of Satan to be exercised in its fury until
the servants of God are sealed in their foreheads. ML p. 308
“Angels are holding the four winds, which are represented as an angry horse
seeking to break loose and rush over the face of the whole earth, bearing
destruction and death in its path.” ML p. 308
“A terrible conflict is before us. We are nearing the battle of the great day of God
Almighty. That which has been held in control is to be let loose. The angel of
mercy is folding her wings, preparing to step down from the throne and leave the
world to the control of Satan.
I tell you in the name of the Lord God of Israel that all injurious, discouraging
influences are held in control by unseen angel hands, until everyone that works
in the fear and love of God is sealed in his forehead.” Letter 138, 1897. 3SM p. 409
“I asked my accompanying angel the meaning of what I heard, and what the four
angels were about to do. He shewed me that it was God that restrained the
powers, and that he gave his angels charge over things on the earth, and that
the four angels had power from God to hold the four winds, and that they were
about to let the four winds go, and while they had started on their mission to
let them go, the merciful eye of Jesus gazed on the remnant that were not all
sealed, then he raised his hands to the Father and plead with him that he had
spilled his blood for them.—Then another angel was commissioned to fly swiftly
to the four angels, and bid them hold until the servants of God were sealed with
the seal of the living God in their foreheads.” RH, August 1, 1849



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 166 of 379
“Four mighty angels hold back the powers of this earth till the servants of God are
sealed in their foreheads. The nations of the world are eager for conflict, but they
are held in check by the angels. When this restraining power is removed there
will come a time of trouble and anguish. Deadly instruments of warfare will be
invented. Vessels with their living cargo will be entombed in the great deep. All
who have not the spirit of truth will unite under the leadership of satanic
agencies, but they are to be kept under control till the time shall come for the
great battle of Armageddon.” 7BC, p. 967 (1900) LDE pp. 238, 239
“At the same time anarchy is seeking to sweep away all law, not only divine, but
human. The centralizing of wealth and power; the vast combinations for the
enriching of the few at the expense of the many; the combinations of the poorer
classes for the defense of their interests and claims; the spirit of unrest, of riot and
bloodshed; the world-wide dissemination of the same teachings that led to the
French Revolution--all are tending to involve the whole world in a struggle
similar to that which convulsed France.” Ed p. 228
"The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God," but he can advance no evidence
to sustain his claims; he can only take the position of an objector to the purposes
of an all-wise God. Atheism can shed no ray of light into the grave. It cannot
restrain crime or quicken the moral energies. It has no power to elevate the
character or purity the soul. On the contrary, it always tends to degenerate the
human race; it leads away from purity and peace. An instance of this is given in
the history of the French Revolution. That period, when the existence of God was
denied, and his commandments were abolished, was the most revolting that is
recorded on the pages of human history. YI, December 24, 1896

An Exegesis of the Fifth Trumpet

Revelation 9:1-12
“Then the fifth angel sounded: And I saw a star fallen from heaven to the earth.
To him was given the key to the bottomless pit. 2 And he opened the bottomless
pit, and smoke arose out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace. So the sun
and the air were darkened because of the smoke of the pit [even greater
darkness than the fourth trumpet]. 3 Then out of the smoke locusts came upon
the earth. And to them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 167 of 379
power. 4 They were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth, or any
green thing, or any tree, but only those men who do not have the seal of God on
their foreheads. 5 And they were not given authority to kill them, but to torment
them for five months. Their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it
strikes a man. 6 In those days men will seek death and will not find it; they will
desire to die, and death will flee from them. 7 The shape of the locusts was like
horses prepared for battle. On their heads were crowns of something like gold,
and their faces were like the faces of men. 8 They had hair like women's hair, and
their teeth were like lions' teeth. 9 And they had breastplates like breastplates of
iron, and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots with many
horses running into battle. 10 They had tails like scorpions, and there were
stings in their tails [the tail represents lies]. Their power was to hurt men five
months. 11 And they had as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit, whose
name in Hebrew is Abaddon, but in Greek he has the name Apollyon.”
Comments on verse 1:
“The fifth angel sounded his trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen from the
sky to the earth. The star was given the key to the shaft of the Abyss.”
The description of the fifth trumpet contains a series of ‘divine passives’
(expressions such as ‘was given the key,’ ‘were given power,’ ‘it was
commanded them’) where God is releasing and allowing the powers of the
abyss to perform their work. We will see in our detailed study of Revelation 11
that God allowed the shaft of the abyss to open because of the treatment that
the two witnesses received during the 1260 years.
The tense of the verb ‘had fallen’ clearly indicates that the star did not fall
when the fifth trumpet blew. It had already fallen before the fifth trumpet
began to sound. How else could the star come out of the Abyss unless it had
fallen into the abyss before?
There can be little doubt that this star represents Lucifer who originally fell
from heaven and at the cross (Isaiah 14:12-14; Revelation 12:7-9). The abyss is
the abode of Satan and his angels and they are the rulers of the underworld
(Revelation 20:1-3; Isaiah 24:21-23; Romans 10:7; Luke 8:31; Jude 6; 2Peter
2:4)


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 168 of 379
Comments on verse 2:
“And he opened the bottomless pit, and smoke arose out of the pit like the smoke
of a great furnace. So the sun and the air were darkened because of the smoke
of the pit [even greater darkness than the fourth trumpet].”
When the ‘star’ (notice that the star is a ‘he’) opened the Abyss, smoke rose
from it like the smoke from a massive furnace. The smoke eclipsed the sun and
the sky. There is no indication that the smoke eclipsed only a third part of the
earth (as in the fourth trumpet)—the text seems to indicate that the darkness
was total!
Comments on verse 3:
“Then out of the smoke locusts came upon the earth. And to them was given
power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.”
When the shaft of the abyss opens, ‘all hell breaks loose.’ As we have previously
seen when we studied the fourth trumpet, the sun (the greater light) is a
symbol of Jesus and the moon (the lesser light) is a symbol of the Scriptures
that give witness to Him. The partial darkness of the fourth trumpet (when
the two witnesses prophesied in sackcloth or obscurity) becomes complete
darkness in the fifth trumpet. A comparison of verse 2 with Exodus 10:15 seems
to indicate that the smoke was really composed of a huge cloud of locusts that
eclipsed the sun.
Exodus 10:15
“For they [the locusts] covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was
darkened; and they ate every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees which
the hail had left. So there remained nothing green on the trees or on the plants of
the field throughout all the land of Egypt.”
France had the bright light of the reformation and rejected it and the result
was a great darkness:
“I saw that the greater the light which the people reject, the greater will be the
power of deception and darkness which will come upon them. The rejection of
truth leaves men captives, the subjects of Satan's deception.” 1T p. 232


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 169 of 379
The words of Jesus are a fit description of how the rejection of the light of the
Reformation led to the pitch darkness of the French Revolution:
Matthew 6:22-23
"The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body
will be full of light. 23 But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of
darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that
darkness!
In Scripture God’s points of the compass are the north and the east. When
Jesus came the first time, he came by way of the east (Luke 1:78, 79). When
Jesus went to heaven (north is up) it was by way of the Mount of Olives on the
east side of Jerusalem (Zechariah 14:4). The sealing angel comes from the
east (Revelation 7:1, 2). When Jesus comes again with His armies it will be from
the east (Matthew 24:27; Revelation 16:12; Isaiah 41:25). The east is God’s
point of the compass because of the position of the sun. He is a God of light
and sunlight originates in the east (Malachi 4:3; Psalm 84:11).
Furthermore, according to Isaiah 14:13, 14 and Psalm 48:1, 2 God’s throne is
in the sides of the north because the sun reaches its brightest intensity when it
is directly overhead. In Ezekiel 1, when God comes to Jerusalem for judgment
He comes from the north (Ezekiel 1:4)
On the other hand, the west is the place where darkness begins and the south
(underworld) is the place where darkness reaches its deepest intensity at
midnight. The ancients considered the south the realm of the underworld
where demons thrive because it was the place of deepest darkness. For this
reason, darkness in the fifth trumpet comes from the abyss, which is in the
underworld.
Amos 8:11, 12 tells us that after the close of probation people will run to the
north and to the east seeking the Word of God because the Word of God is light
(John 1:4, 5, 9; Psalm 119:105). The ancients would never think of going to the
west and to the south because these directions are the realm of darkness.
You might wonder what the directions of the compass have to do with the fifth
trumpet. Well, Egypt was literally south of Israel and therefore it was the king
of the south. As we will notice later in this study, it is not accidental that

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 170 of 379
Revelation 11:8 refers to the demons that rose from the abyss in the French
Revolution as ‘Egypt’. Darkness became notorious in Egypt at the time of
the tenth plague. This is persuasive evidence that there is a connection
between the fifth trumpet and the French Revolution as described in Revelation
11:7-10.
It is also significant that Daniel 11:40 describes the king of the south
(atheism, spiritual Egypt) rising against the king of the north (apostate
Christianity, the papacy) at the beginning of the time of the end (1798). As I
have noted in my notes on Daniel 11, this attack of the king of the south against
the king of the north is a depiction of the French Revolution. Thus, the fifth
trumpet (Revelation 9:1-12), Revelation 11:7-10 and Daniel 11:40 are all
describing the same historical event: The French Revolution.
Kitto’s Encyclopedia describes the nature of the locust:
“Locusts seem to devour not so much from a ravenous appetite as from a rage for
destroying. Destruction, therefore, and not food, is the chief impulse of their
devastations and in this consists their utility; they are, in fact, omnivorous. The
most poisonous plants are indifferent to them; they will prey even upon the
crowfoot, whose causticity burns even the hides of beasts. They simply consume
everything, without predilection—vegetable matter, linens, woolens, silk,
leather, etc.; and Pliny does not exaggerate when he says, fores quoque tectorum
–‘even the doors of houses'—for they have been known to consume the very
varnish of furniture. They reduce everything indiscriminately to shreds, which
become manure" Kitto's Encyclopedia, volume 2, p. 263
Exodus describes the devastating destruction caused by the locusts in Egypt:
Exodus 10:15
“For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened;
and they ate every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail
had left. So there remained nothing green on the trees or on the plants of the
field throughout all the land of Egypt.
Revelation 9:11 tells us that this cloud of locusts had a king who led them
whose name was Abbadon or Apollyon. Normal locusts have no king over them
(Proverbs 30:27) so these must be unusual and supernatural locusts.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 171 of 379
Some interpreters have seen in this plague of locusts a depiction of the
devastations caused by Mohammed and the Muslims in Arabia. However, in
his commentary on the book of Revelation Seiss provides a multiplicity of
reasons why this interpretation cannot be accurate:
“Nor yet will this vision apply, except in a very dim and imperfect way, to the
mighty Saracenic invasion, in which so many moderns locate its fulfillment. If
Muhammed was this star, it is impossible to show wherein he experienced the fall
ascribed to this star. If he was the star, he was also the king of the powers he set
in motion; but the record plainly shows that the star and the king of the locusts
are two distinct personages. If the cave of Hera was the mouth of the pit, the
followers of Muhammed did not come out of that cave, as the locusts are said to
come out of the abyss. If his flight from Mecca was his fall, then the pit was open
and the smoke had begun to issue and breed locusts before the star's fall, which is
again contrary to the record. If the smoke were Muhammed's false doctrines,
then neither smoke nor locusts existed before the pit was opened, for the Arabians
were not Muslims before Muhammed, but the vision represents the locusts as
dwelling in the pit and in the smoke long ere the pit was opened or the smoke
issued. It was after the smoke had already gone forth, and followers had been won,
that Muhammed professed to have received the key from God; he had therefore
opened the pit before he got the key with which to open it; neither was it ever
pretended that this key of his was the key of hell. However, this is not all.
The locusts were forbidden to touch anyone upon whose forehead the seal of God
was impressed; but the wrath and fury of the Muslim hordes were directed mainly
and above all against Christians and Christendom. The locusts were to torment
all who had not the seal of God upon them; but the Saracen invasion struck a very
small part of the world outside of Christendom. The locusts were not allowed to
take people's lives; it was the work of Mohammedanism to kill both body and soul-
the bodies of those who refused to accept it, and the souls of those who embraced
it. It was the command of Muhammed to all his devotees, and delivered in the
name of his god: ‘When ye encounter the unbelievers, strike off their heads, until
ye have made a great slaughter among them… As for the infidels, let them perish’
(Koran 47). So they killed 50,000 in one battle, and 150,000 in another, and
spread death and slaughter wherever they went.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 172 of 379
Does this look like the absence of power to kill? The locusts were to do no injury
to trees, crops, and vegetation.
The Muslims destroyed with fire and sword the countries they invaded. The locusts
were so to torment people that they would seek to destroy their own lives, and
yet should not be able to do it; but neither of these things occurred under the
Muslims. People loved to live then as now, and fought to defend themselves, and
paid tribute to be permitted to live, and could easily find death if they wished.
The locusts were in shape like horses, prepared for war; Muslims had this
appearance no more than any other armed hosts. The locusts wore seeming
golden crowns; but ‘turbans of linen’ very poorly meet the description, while, if
the creatures are symbolical, the crowns are symbolical also. What, then, is the
prophetic import of a turban? The locusts had breastplates, which are said to be
symbols of invulnerability; but the Muslims were not invulnerable; they never
went into battle without losing some of their number, and they were more than
once defeated with great slaughter. The locusts have wings, and tails, and stings
in their tails, and poison in their stings like the poison of scorpions; but, in no
respect was this true of the Muslims, any more than of any other conquering
hordes. The locusts have power to operate only for the space of ‘five months’—on
the year-day theory, one hundred and fifty years—but the warlike expeditions of
the Saracens ranged through more than four hundred years, and their power is
not yet taken away.
The king of the locusts is named Abaddon and Apollyon, but neither of these was
the name of the Muslim prophet, nor do they describe him anymore than many
others who have acted a like part in the world. Smoke may very well represent
false doctrine, but what was the sun and air obscured by Mohammedanism,
when those who see only Mohammedanism in this vision are obliged to consider
the Christianity and churches which the Saracens overrun, as even worse than
Islamism itself? Besides, if Arabia, whence the Saracens came, is the well-pit of the
abyss, as some seem to affirm, then it is into Arabia that the Devil is to be cast,
and shut up, and sealed in, for the thousand years, if not also the place into which
all the finally lost are to be consigned!” Joseph Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition
of the Book of Revelation, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006 by
Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 173 of 379
The Old Testament uses locusts to describe God’s judgments against people
who are in rebellion against Him.
These locusts make a raging noise like fire (the locusts come from the abyss
where fire is), they look like horses ready for battle, and they devour like
lions (Joel 2). This bizarre symbolism describes the almost absolute destructive
power of Satan and his angels in France during the French Revolution.
These locusts are clearly symbolic because they are a hybrid combination of
locust and scorpion and they attack people, not plants. According to Jesus,
the scorpion represents Satan (Luke 10:18, 19). The most dangerous body part
of a scorpion is its tail and the tail represents lies (Isaiah 9:15; John 8:44). This
is why Satan’s tail drew a third part of the angels and cast them to the earth
(Revelation 12:4).
In brief, this army has all the Biblical characteristics that apply to Satan and his
angels: scorpions, serpents, lions, locusts, sulphur, bottomless pit, etc. The
fifth trumpet is clearly a description of an extraordinary manifestation of
satanic power.
Comments on Revelation 9:4
“They were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth, or any green thing,
or any tree, but only those men who do not have the seal of God on their
foreheads.”
This language is highly unusual. Grass, green things and trees are what locusts
eat and yet they receive the command to spare the grass, the plants, and the
trees. They are to attack only those humans who do not have the seal of God
on their foreheads.
It is clear that green, living vegetation here represents the faithful people of
God (Psalm 1:1-3; Jeremiah 17:8; Psalm 92:12). Not hurting the vegetation is
synonymous with sparing those who have the seal on their forehead. We are
not to understand this seal as the end-time seal of God but rather as the gospel
seal (Ephesians 1:13, 14; 4:30; 2Timothy 2:19; 2Corinthians 1:22) that all who
believe receive upon baptism. The book of Revelation makes it very clear that
God will place His end time seal upon the 144,000 living saints (Revelation
14:1; 7:1-3).

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 174 of 379
By way of example, Ellen White wrote that only the 144,000 would have the
final eschatological seal. However, she wrote that Sister Hastings, who died in
1850, was sealed (2SM, p. 263). Ellen White recognized that at baptism all
faithful believers receive the seal of the Holy Spirit:
“Those who thus unite with the church by baptism are sealed as men and women
who have been born again, of water and of the Spirit. They have entered upon a
new life.” 6MR, p. 28
Comments on Revelation 9:5
“And they were not given authority to kill them, but to torment them for five
months. Their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a man.”
Scorpions rarely kill human beings when they sting them but they do cause
excruciating pain, swelling and suffering, even to the point of wanting to die!
Applying the year/day principle, the five months would be equivalent to one
hundred and fifty years. Notably the Age of Reason or the Enlightenment
began in the early 17th century with the work of Rene Descartes:
Contemporary, Blaise Pascal wrote:
‘I cannot forgive Descartes; in all his philosophy he did his best to dispense with
God. But he could not avoid making Him set the world in motion with a flip of His
thumb; after that he had no more use for God."
Descartes’ most famous book was A Discourse on Method, published in 1637
some 150 years before the beginning of the French Revolution. The Age of
Reason eventually jettisoned the need for faith and the miraculous in religion.
It supplanted faith in God with human wisdom. During this period, the sciences
would come to believe that all could be resolved through human ingenuity
without the need of an ever-interfering God. Notably these philosophies would
not kill people but they would make them existentially miserable. The Age of
Reason inspired the French Revolution.
Notes on Revelation 9:6
“In those days men will seek death and will not find it; they will desire to die,
and death will flee from them.”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 175 of 379
Ellen White makes the following statement about the fruits of atheism:
“Atheism can shed no ray of light into the grave. It cannot restrain crime or
quicken the moral energies. It has no power to elevate the character or purify
the soul. On the contrary, it always tends to degenerate the human race; it leads
away from purity and peace. An instance of this is given in the history of the
French Revolution. That period, when the existence of God was denied, and his
commandments were abolished, was the most revolting that is recorded on the
pages of human history.” YI December 24, 1896
The main characteristic of contemporary society is meaninglessness. This is
why people are hungering and thirsting for spirituality and a reason to live.
The rise of philosophies such as deism, ethical relativism, nihilism,
rationalism, existentialism, evolutionism and atheistic communism has
led people to be pessimistic about the meaning of life. After all, if there was no
supernatural divine beginning, what hope is there for a supernatural divine
end? If there is no creator God, there is no future, and if there is no future, then
life has no ultimate meaning. This is the reason why the Psalmist says that a
fool says in his heart that there is no God (Psalm 14:1; see also Job 3:20, 21;
Jeremiah 8:3.
“There are many ways in which human beings can crucify the Son of God afresh,
and put Him to open shame. The worship of worldly business so confuses the
mind that Satan stealthily approaches, and insidiously gains entrance. He has
many theories by which to lead astray those who will be led. The erroneous views
of God that the world is entertaining are skepticism in disguise, preparing the
way for atheism. By hasty words and selfish deeds, men often grieve the heart of
Christ. Thus, Satan works untiringly to lead them to disloyalty. As he gains control
of minds, he makes upon them lasting impressions, and the realities of eternity
fade away.” TDG p. 339
The book of Ecclesiastes is a good illustration of the spirit that inspired the
French Revolution. Solomon became a hedonist, living only for present
pleasure. He even came to entertain doubts about the existence of God. He
even went so far as to say that he hated life:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 176 of 379
Ecclesiastes 2:17, 18, NIV
“So I hated life, because the work that is done under the sun was grievous to me.
All of it is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. 18 I hated all the things I had
toiled for under the sun, because I must leave them to the one who comes after
me.”
“His faith in the living God was supplanted by atheistic doubts. Unbelief marred
his happiness, weakened his principles, and degraded his life.” PK, p. 58
Ernest Hemingway, the Nobel Prize winner for literature in 1954, greatly
admired the book of Ecclesiastes. He led a disorderly and miserable life and
ended it by blowing out his brains. Such is the fruit of a life without God. It ends
in pessimism and meaninglessness.
Ellen White described two individuals that the spirit of the rationalism
captivated:
“It is said that Hume, the skeptic, was in early life a conscientious believer in the
Word of God. Being connected with a debating society, he was appointed to
present the arguments in favor of infidelity. He studied with earnestness and
perseverance, and his keen and active mind became imbued with the sophistry
of skepticism. Erelong he came to believe its delusive teachings, and his whole
afterlife bore the dark impress of infidelity.” CG p. 196
“When Voltaire was five years old, he committed to memory an infidel poem, and
the pernicious influence was never effaced from his mind. He became one of
Satan's most successful agents to lead men away from God. Thousands will rise up
in the judgment and charge the ruin of their souls upon the infidel Voltaire.” CG
p. 196
Rationalism even came to the point of denying the creation story:
“God has permitted a flood of light to be poured upon the world, in both science
and art; but when professedly scientific men treat upon these subjects from a
merely human point of view, they will assuredly come to wrong conclusions. It
may be innocent to speculate beyond what God's word has revealed, if our theories
do not contradict facts found in the Scriptures; but those who leave the word of
God, and seek to account for his created works upon scientific principles, are


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 177 of 379
drifting, without chart or compass, upon an unknown ocean. The greatest minds,
if not guided by the word of God in their research, become bewildered in their
attempts to trace the relations of science and revelation. Because the Creator and
his works are so far beyond their comprehension that they are unable to explain
them by natural laws, they regard Bible history as unreliable. Those who doubt
the reliability of the records of the Old and New Testaments will be led to go a step
farther, and doubt the existence of God; and then, having lost their anchor,
they are left to beat about upon the rocks of infidelity. These persons have
lost the simplicity of faith. There should be a settled belief in the divine
authority of God's holy word.” CE p. 193
Comments on Revelation 9:7
“The shape of the locusts was like horses prepared for battle. On their heads
were crowns of something like gold, and their faces were like the faces of men.”
We find the backdrop of this imagery in Joel 2:4-10 where God compares an
invading army with a plague of locusts. It is of interest that the Italian word
for locust is cavalletta, which means ‘little horse’. The German peasants call the
locust hupferde, which means, ‘hay horses.’ At this point Satan and his angels
are already gathering their forces for the final battle against the God, the Bible
and His people.
Comments on Revelation 9:8-10
“Their hair was like women's hair, and their teeth were like lions' teeth. They
had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings was like
the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle. They had tails
and stings like scorpions, and in their tails, they had power to torment people for
five months.”
The lion is a symbol of the destructive power of Satan who goes about as a
roaring lion seeking whom he may devour (1Peter 5:8) and Ellen White
compares Satan’s angels with lions as well. When Jesus resurrected:
“[Satan] related to his angels that Jesus had given His disciples power to rebuke
them and cast them out, and to heal those whom they should afflict. Then Satan's
angels went forth like roaring lions, seeking to destroy the followers of Jesus.
EW, p. 191

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 178 of 379
In Scripture the tail represents lies (Revelation 12:7-9; John 8:44; Isaiah 9:15).
It is significant that during the 1260 years, Satan deceived people by the lie of
false religion (false God) but during the age of reason Satan deceived and hurt
people by the lies of secularism (no God).
According to Daniel 11:40-45, false religion and secularism are the two
enemies that will face off during the time of the end. These two will eventually
join forces for the final battle.
Comments on Revelation 9:11
The king who rules over the locusts is the angel of the Abyss, and his name in
Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek, Apollyon.” The names Abaddon and Apollyon
mean “destroyer.” The New Testament describes Satan as the ruler or prince
of demons (Matthew 12:24) and Jesus referred to him as the ‘destroyer’ (John
10:10). This means that the locusts represent Satan’s angels.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 179 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 180 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


CHAPTER 7: THE REVELATION 11 INTERLUDE:
 THE 1260-YEARS AND FRENCH REVOLUTION

Revelation 11:2
“But leave out the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it, for
it has been given [edothe: first aorist passive] to the Gentiles. And they will
[future tense] tread the holy city underfoot for forty-two months.”
    What is the meaning of the court in this verse?
    Why does the angel command John not to measure the court of the
     temple?
    Daniel 8:10-13 refers to trampling the sanctuary and Revelation 13:5
     speaks of the blaspheming of the tabernacle in heaven. Do these actions
     have anything to do with not measuring the court?
    What does the holy city represent in this verse?
    Who are the Gentiles who trampled the holy city?
    When did the period of the 42 months begin and end?
    Are the 42 months past or future?
    Did God give the court of the temple to the gentiles before or after the
     measurement of the temple began?
Daniel and Revelation refer to the 1260 days in different ways and with
different emphases:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 181 of 379
    In Daniel 7, the emphasis falls upon what the papacy did as a system on
     earth during the 1260 years. It blasphemed God, persecuted the saints of
     God and thought it could change the times and the Law of God.
    In Revelation 12, the central focus falls upon Satan who was the driving
     force behind the persecution of the saints by the papacy.
    In Revelation 13, the emphasis seems to fall upon the attack upon the
     name of God, those who dwell in heaven, the heavenly sanctuary and the
     saints of that sanctuary (which is also the emphasis in Daniel 8).
    However, in Revelation 11 the central focus is upon the attack against
     the Bible, the Word of God.
Ellen White makes a definite connection between what the papacy did with the
Bible during the 1260 years and the events of the French Revolution. The
proscription of the Bible by the papacy during the 1260 years led to the
spiritual ignorance that exploded in the French Revolution:
“The war against the Bible, carried forward for so many centuries in France,
culminated in the scenes of the Revolution. That terrible outbreaking was but the
legitimate result of Rome's suppression of the Scriptures.” GC p. 265
“It was popery that had begun the work which atheism was completing. The
policy of Rome had wrought out those conditions, social, political, and religious,
that were hurrying France on to ruin.” GC p. 276
There is an important sequence in Daniel 8 that Revelation 11:2 echoes.
Daniel 8 tells us that the little horn trampled the sanctuary and those who
worshipped there and took away ‘the daily’, a word that describes the work of
the priest in the court and in the holy place. Both Daniel and Revelation use the
specific word ‘trample’ as it relates to the sanctuary (Daniel 8:10-13). The
trampling of the sanctuary, the host and the daily transpires for 42 months and
then, at the end of the 2300 days, the process of cleansing the sanctuary
begins. Thus Daniel describes a clear transition from the daily service (in Daniel
8:10-13) to the yearly service (Daniel 8:14).
The same is true of Revelation 11:1, 2. For 1260 years, God allowed the
Gentiles to trample the city of Jerusalem as well as upon the truth revealed by


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 182 of 379
the two witnesses and then after this period God would begin to measure the
most holy place and those who worship there.
Thus, there is a close link between Daniel 8 and Revelation 11:1, 2. In Daniel 8,
after the trampling of the Prince, the host and the sanctuary for 1260 years, the
process to cleanse the sanctuary begins. In Revelation 11, the Gentiles trample
upon Jerusalem and then the temple is measured.
Albert Barnes captured the meaning of the Gentiles who trampled the holy city
for 42 months:
“This, as we have seen, would properly mean that a separation was to be made
between what was the true church and what was not, though it might seem to
belong to it. The one was to be measured or estimated; the other was to be left
out, as not pertaining to that, or as belonging to the Gentiles, or to paganism.
The idea would be that though it professedly pertained to the true church, and
to the worship of God, however, that it deserved to be characterized as paganism.
Now this will apply with great propriety, according to all Protestant notions, to
the manner in which the papacy was regarded by the Reformers, and should be
regarded at all times. It claimed to be the true church, and to the eye of an
observer would seem to belong to it, as much as the outer court seemed to
pertain to the temple. However, it had the essential characteristics of
paganism, and was, therefore, properly to be left out, or, cast out, as not
pertaining to the true church.” Barnes' Notes, Electronic Database Copyright ©
1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved)
Then Barnes makes this amazing statement:
“Can anyone doubt the truth of this representation as applicable to the papacy?
Almost everything that was unique in the ancient pagan systems of religion had
been introduced into the Roman communion; and a stranger at Rome would see
more that would lead him to feel that he was in a pagan land than he would that
he was in a land where the pure doctrines of Christianity prevailed, and where
the worship was celebrated which the Redeemer hath designed to set up on the
earth. This was true not only in the pomp and splendor of worship, and in the
processions and imposing ceremonials; but in the worship of images, in the
homage rendered to the dead, in the number of festival days, in the fact that the
statues reared in pagan Rome to the honor of the gods had been reconsecrated in

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 183 of 379
the service of Christian devotion to the apostles, saints, and martyrs; and in the
robes of the Christian priesthood, derived from those in use in the ancient pagan
worship. The direction was, that, in estimating the true church, this was to be
‘left out,’ or ‘cast out’; and, if this interpretation is correct, the meaning is, that
the Roman Catholic communion, as an organized body, is to be regarded as
no part of the true church—a conclusion which is inevitable, if the passages
of Scripture which are commonly supposed by Protestants to apply to it are
correctly applied. To determine this, and to separate the true church from it,
was no small part of the work of the Reformation (from Barnes' Notes, Electronic
Database Copyright © 1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights
reserved)
In Revelation 11:1, the Angel transported John in vision to 1844 and told him
to measure the temple and those who worshiped there. However, the angel also
told him not to measure the court where the Gentiles worshipped because it
was given to the gentiles (not ‘will’ be given to them from 1844 forward but
rather was given to them from 538 AD forward).
The best translation of the Greek word edothe (a first aorist passive indicative)
is ‘was given.’ It is worthy of note that in every other appearance of this word
in the NIV the word edothe is translated ‘was given.’ Only in this one instance
does the NIV translate the aorist passive as a perfect tense “has been given”).
The tense of the verb clearly indicates that God gave the court to the Gentiles
before the process of measuring the temple began. Stated another way, God
gave the court to the Gentiles, they would trample the holy city for 42 months
and then (after the 42 months) the angel told John to measure the temple and
its worshipers. Young’s Literal Translation of Revelation 11:2, 3 captures the
correct translation of the word edothe:
“. . . and the court that is without the sanctuary leave out, and thou mayest not
measure it, because it was [aorist tense] given to the nations [gentiles], and the
holy city they shall [future tense] tread down forty-two months and I will
[future tense] give to My two witnesses, and they shall [future tense] prophesy
days, a thousand, two hundred, sixty, arrayed with sackcloth. . .”
This chart illustrates the timing for the trampling of the court and the
measuring of the temple:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 184 of 379
       Court                                                                  temple, altar, worshipers
 (‘do not measure’)                             42 Months                    (“measure”(present tense)
‘was given” (past tense)   ‘shall trample Jerusalem’ (future tense)



      538                                                             1798           1844


In the New Testament, both Jerusalem and the temple represent God’s faithful
people on earth:
      Galatians 4:21-31
      John 4:20-24
      Hebrews 12:22-24
      Philippians 3:20, 21
      Ephesians 2:19-22
      2Thessalonians 2:3, 4
      Daniel 8:10-12
The Presbyterian minister, Albert Barnes wrote:
“The ‘holy city,’ Jerusalem, was regarded as sacred to God—as his dwelling-place
on earth, and as the abode of his people, and nothing was more natural than to
use the term as representing the church.” Albert Barnes, notes on Revelation 11:2
This statement has significant implications because if the holy city and the
temple here represent the church, then in Revelation 14:20 the city that the
wicked surround must represent the church as well. Then the scenario looks
like this:
During the 1260 years God allowed the Gentiles to trample upon the holy
city/temple (Daniel 8:11-13; Revelation 11:2) but in Revelation 14:20 and
19:14, 15 the Lord will trample upon the Gentiles or nations (according to Joel
3) who will gather around the end time church with the intention of
destroying it. This provides evidence that the Lord will trample upon those who
trampled upon His people during the 1260 years. This helps explain how end
time Babylon will receive double of what she gave (Revelation 18:6). She
trampled upon God’s people, and God, in turn will trample upon her.
In Revelation 11:2, the Gentiles stand in contrast to the holy city in the same
manner as in Daniel 7, the saints are in contrast to the little horn and in


     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 185 of 379
Revelation 13, in contrast to the beast. When the Bible speaks about Jerusalem
being overwhelmed by the Gentiles it is not talking about brick and mortar but
rather the people in the city (2Kings 24:14, 15; Matthew 23:37; Luke 23:38).
Daniel 1:1, 2 tells us that Nebuchadnezzar took Jerusalem captive. He did not
take the physical city to Babylon but rather the citizens of the city. The
trampling of the city by the Gentiles for 42 months is the same as the
persecuting of the saints in Daniel 7 and Revelation 12 and 13.
The Gentiles are those who are not true Jews or true believers but rather
counterfeit Jews (see John 1:47; John 8; Romans 2:28, 29; Romans 9:6-8;
Galatians 3:28, 29). These ‘counterfeit believers’ are not judged in 1844 but
only the righteous. In Daniel 7 and 8, the central focus of the judgment is not on
the condemnation of the little horn but on rewarding the saints who receive
the kingdom.
In the judgment before the second coming, God will pronounce a sentence in
favor of the saints of the Most High. During and after the millennium God will
announce a verdict against their wicked oppressors. It is no coincidence, that
the sixth church, Philadelphia, as in Revelation 11:1 there are people who say
that they are Jews but they are not. Thus, the synagogue of Satan in the church
of Philadelphia and the Gentiles under the sixth trumpet are closely related.
Two paraphrase versions catch the correct nuance of Revelation 11:2:
New Century Version
“. . . it [the court] has been given to those who are not God's people.”
The Message:
“. . . it has [the court] been handed over to non-Jewish outsiders."
The following insight by the Presbyterian minister, Albert Barnes, sounds much
like the view of Adventist eschatology:
“This would find a fulfillment if there should arise a state of things in the church
in which it would be necessary to draw a line between those who properly
constituted the church and those who did not; if there should be such a condition
of things that any considerable portion of those who professedly pertained to


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 186 of 379
the church ought to be divided off as not belonging to it, or would have such
characteristic marks that it could be seen that they were strangers and aliens. The
interpretation would demand that they should sustain some relation to the
church, or that they would seem to belong to it—as the court did to the temple;
but still that this was in appearance only, and that in estimating the true
church it was necessary to leave them out altogether.” (Barnes' Notes, Electronic
Database Copyright © 1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights
reserved)
Comments on Revelation 11:3
 “And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand
two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth."
The questions we need to answer in verse 3 are these:
    Who are the two witnesses?
    Why are they clothed in sackcloth?
    Who is the person that gives them power to prophesy? That is to say, who
     is saying, ‘I will give power to my two witnesses’?
    Why do two olive trees and the two candlesticks symbolize the two
     witnesses?
The Two Witnesses
The person who gives the two witnesses power to prophesy is Jesus because
He sent the power of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost to enable the apostles to be
His witnesses:
Acts 1:8
“But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you
shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the
end of the earth."
Clearly we must link the two witnesses with Acts 1 where Jesus promised to
impart power to His apostles and referred to them with the possessive
pronoun “my” and called upon them to be His witnesses to the world. Although
the word “power” is not in the original in verse 3, most versions say that Jesus
gave the two witnesses power or authority.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 187 of 379
Someone may wonder whether the two witnesses represent the Old and New
Testaments. Yes, they do, but there is more to the story. Jesus made the
apostles the depositories of the oracles of God. He called them to preach God’s
message as found in the Old and New Testaments. Thus, the two witnesses
symbolize God’s messengers who have been empowered by the Holy Spirit to
give the message of salvation to the world as found in the Old and New
Testaments.
Ellen White underlines that the two witnesses impart their messages to the
world through the medium of the church. Thus, the two witnesses represent
the Bible as preached by the faithful church:
“Until Christ shall appear in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, men
will become perverse in spirit and turn from the truth to fables. The church will
yet see troublous times. She will prophesy in sackcloth. Although she must meet
heresies and persecutions, although she must battle with the infidel and the
apostate, yet by the help of God she is bruising the head of Satan. The Lord will
have a people as true as steel, and with faith as firm as the granite rock. They are
to be His witnesses in the world, His instrumentalities to do a special, a glorious
work in the day of His preparation.” 4T, pp. 594, 595
Two Act as One
Although there are two witnesses, they act as one, in perfect unison. They
testify together, they pour out plagues together, they suffer persecution
together, the beast from the bottomless pit kills them together and they
resurrect and ascend to heaven together. Thus, although there are two
witnesses they are in perfect harmony and act as one.
Revelation 11:8 uses the singular word ‘body’ in a collective sense for both
witnesses (‘their dead body’). In verse 9, the word ‘body’ appears once more
in the singular before the Greek switches to the plural. The same thing happens
in verse 5 with reference to the word ‘mouth’, which is singular. Thus, although
the witnesses are two in number, they speak as one and the text refers to them
as one. They are one because they have a common purpose: To reveal the one
and only Jesus Christ.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 188 of 379
Two Prophets
The two witnesses receive power to prophesy, so they must have the prophetic
gift:
1 Peter 1:10-12, NIV
“Concerning this salvation, the [Old Testament] prophets, who spoke of the
grace that was to come to you, searched intently and with the greatest care, 11
trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in
them was pointing [in the Old Testament] when he predicted [NKJV: ‘testified
beforehand’] the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. 12 It was
revealed to them [the Old Testament Prophets] that they were not serving
themselves but you [those who lived in the New Testament], when they spoke
of the things that have now been told you by those who have preached the gospel
to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these
things.”
Moses and Elijah Theme
These two witnesses are not two ordinary prophets. The context clearly
reveals that the two prophets function in the power and spirit of Moses and
Elijah. This is made clear by the fact that Moses brought a judgment of God
against Egypt for rejecting God’s word by turning the waters of the Nile into
blood (in Revelation 11 the waters are symbolic of peoples) and Elijah brought
a judgment of fire down from heaven for the same reason (2 Kings 1:10-18).
Does this mean that Moses and Elijah would appear literally and personally
during the 1260 years? Not any more than Jezebel and Balaam appeared
literally during the period of the seven churches.
Moses and Elijah are symbolic in the passage. Moses was the prophet that
began the history of Israel thus being the giant spokesperson of the old
dispensation (see John 5:45-47). On the other hand, Elijah was the prophet of
the future (John the Baptist and the end time Elijah movement). John was the
last prophet of the old dispensation and announced the fulfillment of the Old
Testament prophecies in Jesus. The gospels identify John the Baptist as Elijah
(Luke 1:16, 17; Matthew 11:10-13; Matthew 17:10-13) who bore witness to
Jesus (John 5:35) who is the light (John 5:36).

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 189 of 379
The last book of the Old Testament brings to view both Moses and Elijah. Moses
is presented as the prophet of the past and Elijah as the prophet of the future.
Thus, they represent the Old and New Testaments.
Malachi 4:4-6
"Remember the Law of Moses, My servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for
all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. 5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. 6 And he
will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to
their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse."
Word of God and Testimony of Jesus
Revelation 1:2 further corroborates that the two witnesses represent the Old
and New Testaments. This verse tells us that John bore witness to the Word of
God and the Testimony of Jesus Christ. In fact, John was on Patmos for bearing
witness to the Word of God and the Testimony of Jesus Christ (Revelation 1:9).
The martyrs (the word means ‘witnesses’) of the dark ages and the end time
suffered, and will suffer death because of their faithfulness in proclaiming the
Word of God and the Testimony of Jesus Christ (Revelation 20:4; 6:9). Hebrews
1:1 states that God spoke in old times by the prophets but in these last days
has spoken by the Son. Jesus stated that there were two witnesses to His divine
calling, the Father and Himself (John 8:13-18, 28, 38, 14:24).
Kenneth Strand correctly wrote:
“These two witnesses are, namely, ‘the word of God’ and ‘the testimony of Jesus
Christ,’ or what we today would call the OT prophetic message and the NT
apostolic witness.” (Kenneth Strand, "The Two Witnesses of Revelation 11:3-12”
Andrews University Seminary Studies (Summer 1981. Volume 19, number 2), pp.
127-135
The Bible describes God’s scriptural message in terms of twosomes. The Bible
is one book, a unity, composed of two parts. The Bible is a two edged sword,
two witnesses, two candlesticks, two olive trees, two keys, Moses and
Elijah and the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 190 of 379
Ellen White explains:
“The two witnesses represent the Scriptures of the Old and the New Testament.
Both are important testimonies to the origin and perpetuity of the law of God.
Both are witnesses also to the plan of salvation. The types, sacrifices, and
prophecies of the Old Testament point forward to a Savior to come. The Gospels
and Epistles of the New Testament tell of a Savior who has come in the exact
manner foretold by type and prophecy.” GC p. 267
The Old Testament and the New Testament are two distinct Testaments but
they bear witness to one Jesus. Although they are two, they give witness to One.
The Old Testament gives witness to Jesus (John 5:39, 40; Acts 10:43; 23:11;
26:16; I John 1:1, 2; I Peter 1:10-12) as does the New. In fact, the reason why
John wrote his gospel was to give witness to Jesus (John 21:24, 25).
The Sackcloth: Obscurity and Persecution
In Scripture God’s people use sackcloth when the wicked persecute them.
Sackcloth also represents the darkness of error and persecution and
affliction. When the King of Assyria came with the intention to destroy
Jerusalem, King Hezekiah wore sackcloth:
2 Kings 19:1-3
“And so it was, when King Hezekiah heard it, that he tore his clothes, covered
himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the Lord. 2 Then he sent
Eliakim, who was over the household, Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the
priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz. 3 And
they said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah: 'This day is a day of trouble, and rebuke,
and blasphemy; for the children have come to birth, but there is no strength to
bring them forth. “
Esther 4:1-4
“When Mordecai learned all that had happened, he tore his clothes and put on
sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the midst of the city. He cried out with a
loud and bitter cry. 2 He went as far as the front of the king's gate, for no one
might enter the king's gate clothed with sackcloth. 3 And in every province where
the king's command and decree arrived, there was great mourning among the


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 191 of 379
Jews, with fasting, weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and
ashes.”
Isaiah 50:3
“I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering."
Revelation 6:12
“I looked when He opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great
earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon
became like blood.”
Ellen White explained the meaning of sackcloth:
“Not only is Satan leading the world captive, but his deceptions are leavening the
professed churches of our Lord Jesus Christ. The great apostasy will develop into
darkness deep as midnight, impenetrable as sackcloth of hair. To God's people
it will be a night of trial, a night of weeping, a night of persecution for the truth's
sake. However, out of that night of darkness God's light will shine. COL pp. 414,
415
“The great apostasy is working to a point and will develop into darkness deep
as midnight, impenetrable as sackcloth of hair. This is the time to employ any
system that can be devised to discover and counteract the leaven of error. Let
there be light. There should be one hundred light bearers in our world where there
is one today. Darkness will become more dense in human minds after the
truth has penetrated and been rejected. However, there are some minds where
the darkness will be removed. They recognize the light. . . .” PM p. 324
Ellen White saw a deeper dimension to the two witnesses than the Old and
New Testaments. She discerned that they represent the church that preaches
from these two Testaments. As a result, the proclaimers suffer persecution.
In other words, the two witnesses testify through the medium of the Holy
Spirit who empowers the church and the result is persecution.
This is precisely what the introduction to the book of Revelation affirms. The
Roman Empire exiled John to Patmos for the Word of God and the Testimony
of Jesus Christ. God gave the book of Revelation to Jesus, Jesus to the Spirit, the
Spirit to the angel, the angel to John and John to the churches and the churches

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 192 of 379
to the world. The seven candlesticks represent the work of the church in
imparting the light.
“Until Christ shall appear in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, men
will become perverse in spirit and turn from the truth to fables. The church will
yet see troublous times. She will prophesy in sackcloth. But although she must
meet heresies and persecutions, although she must battle with the infidel and
the apostate, yet by the help of God she is bruising the head of Satan.” PM p. 386
“The heavens were clothed in sackcloth [darkness] to hide the sight of the
Divine Sufferer." LHU p. 153
“God's witnesses remained in a state of obscurity. The papal power sought to hide
from the people the word of truth, and set before them false witnesses to
contradict its testimony. When the Bible was proscribed by religious and secular
authority; when its testimony was perverted, and every effort made that men and
demons could invent to turn the minds of the people from it; when those who
dared proclaim its sacred truths were hunted, betrayed, tortured, buried in
dungeon cells, martyred for their faith, or compelled to flee to mountain
fastnesses, and to dens and caves of the earth--then the faithful witnesses
prophesied in sackcloth.” GC p. 267
This prophecy links sackcloth with blackness and darkness. The two
witnesses testified in the midst of darkness. This reminds us of the fourth
trumpet where the heavenly lights were partially eclipsed. This was truly the
period of the ‘dark ages’.
The 42 months and 1260 Days
“The periods here mentioned—42 ‘forty and two months,’ and ‘a thousand two
hundred and threescore days’—are the same, alike representing the time in
which the church of Christ was to suffer oppression from Rome. The 1260 years
of papal supremacy began in A.D. 538, and would therefore terminate in 1798. At
that time, a French army entered Rome and made the pope a prisoner, and he died
in exile. Though a new pope was soon afterward elected, the papal hierarchy has
never since been able to wield the power which it before possessed.” GC p. 266




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 193 of 379
The Lamp Stands
They key passage that helps us comprehend the meaning of the two
lampstands is Zechariah 4:1-6.
“Now the angel who talked with me came back and wakened me, as a man who
is wakened out of his sleep. 2 And he said to me, "What do you see?" So I said, "I
am looking, and there is a lampstand of solid gold with a bowl on top of it, and
on the stand seven lamps with seven pipes to the seven lamps. 3 Two olive
trees are by it, one at the right of the bowl and the other at its left." 4 So I
answered and spoke to the angel who talked with me, saying, "What are these,
my lord?" 5 Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, "Do you
not know what these are?" And I said, "No, my lord." 6 So he answered and said
to me: "This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel: 'Not by might nor by power,
but by My Spirit,' says the Lord of hosts.”
In Zechariah 4:14 the two olive trees are called the two anointed ones,
literally in Hebrew, ‘the two sons of oil’. The text does not call them ‘sons of oil’
because their anointing but rather because they furnished oil to the
candlestick (the church) and the oil is the Holy Spirit (Zechariah 4:6).
In the Zechariah, there is only one lampstand and two olive trees while in
the New Testament we have two olive trees and two lamp stands. There is
a reason for this difference. During the Old Testament period, there was only
one Testament while in the New Testament period there are two.
This is also the reason why God gave the religious leaders of Christ’s day the
key (singular) of knowledge (Luke 11:52) and not the keys of knowledge.
Later Jesus gave Peter and all believers the keys of the kingdom of heaven
(Matthew 16:19). Peter had two keys because he had the Old Testament
witness and the New Testament fulfillment.
The Bible describes the Word of God as light (Psalm 119:105). Jesus is the
Word of God in person and He is identified as light (John 1:1-4) but the Bible
is the lesser light that leads to Christ, the greater light (John 5:39-40). Sadly,
when the light came, the darkness became deeper (John 1:5, 6). The word
‘testify’ and ‘light’ are together in John 5:35, 36. John was a burning lamp that
gave light but verse 36 tells us that Jesus has greater witness or light.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 194 of 379
No book can contain the fullness of the revelation of Jesus Christ. The Bible is
only a faint shadow of the reality but in it we have enough information to find
salvation and then throughout eternity we will continue to explore the beauty
of Jesus.
“In the parable, the wise virgins had oil in their vessels with their lamps. Their
light burned with undimmed flame through the night of watching. It helped to
swell the illumination for the bridegroom's honor. Shining out in the darkness, it
helped to illuminate the way to the home of the bridegroom, to the marriage feast.
Likewise, the followers of Christ are to shed light into the darkness of the world.
Through the Holy Spirit, God's word is a light as it becomes a transforming
power in the life of the receiver. By implanting in their hearts the principles of His
word, the Holy Spirit develops in men the attributes of God. The light of His glory—
His character—is to shine forth in His followers. Thus they are to glorify God, to
lighten the path to the Bridegroom's home, to the city of God, to the marriage
supper of the Lamb.” COL, p. 414
Revelation 4:6 explains that the seven lamps of fire represent the seven
Spirits that stand before the Lord. In Revelation 5:6, after Christ’s
inauguration as High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary, the Father sent the
seven Spirits to the earth to help the church fulfill its mission of lighting the
world with the Word of God.
The two witnesses accomplish their work through the ministration of the Holy
Spirit who imparts the message to the church and then the church proclaims
the message to the world. Zechariah 4 makes this clear when it states that the
two witnesses accomplish their work, “not by might nor by power but by my
Spirit.” The two holy ones who stand in the presence of the Lord receive the
holy oil and impart it to those on earth who proclaim the gospel.
“From the two olive trees the golden oil was emptied through the golden pipes
into the bowl of the candlestick, and thence into the golden lamps that gave light
to the sanctuary. So from the holy ones that stand in God's presence His Spirit
is imparted to the human instrumentalities who are consecrated to His
service. The mission of the two anointed ones is to communicate to God's
people that heavenly grace which alone can make His word a lamp to the feet


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 195 of 379
and a light to the path. ‘Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the
Lord of hosts.’ Zech. 4:6.” COL p. 408
“’Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of hosts.’ Through
the golden pipes, the olive-branches empty the golden oil out of themselves.
These olive branches are the anointed ones that stand by the Lord of the whole
earth. Through them, the Holy Spirit is communicated to the churches. Thus,
heaven and earth are united. The power that is in heaven unites with human
intelligences.” RH, May 16, 1899
“The word is the preacher's light, and as the golden oil flows from the
heavenly olive tree into the bowl, it makes the lamp of life flash with a clearness
and power that all will discern. Those who have the privilege of sitting under
such a ministry, if their hearts are susceptible to the Holy Spirit's influence, will
feel an inner life. The fire of God's love will be kindled within them. The Bible,
the word of God, is the bread of life. He who feeds the flock of God must himself
first eat of the bread which came down from heaven.” TM pp. 339, 340
Revelation 11:5
“And if anyone wants to harm them, fire proceeds from their mouth and
devours their enemies. And if anyone wants to harm them, he must be killed in
this manner.”
The fire that proceeds out of the mouth of the two witnesses reminds us of two
texts that describe the experience of the prophet Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 20:9
“Then I said, "I will not make mention of Him, nor speak anymore in His name."
But His word was in my heart like a burning fire shut up in my bones; I was
weary of holding it back, and I could not.”
Jeremiah 5:14
“Therefore thus says the Lord God of hosts: "Because you speak this word,
behold, I will make My words in your mouth fire, and this people wood, and it
shall devour them.”
On this matter, Ellen White remarks:



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 196 of 379
"And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and
devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner
be killed." Revelation 11:5. Men cannot with impunity trample upon the word
of God. The meaning of this fearful denunciation is set forth in the closing
chapter of the Revelation: "I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the
prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto
him the plagues that are written in this book: and if any man shall take away
from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of
the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in
this book." Revelation 22:18, 19. GC p. 268
Revelation 11:6
“These have power to shut heaven, so that no rain falls in the days of their
prophecy; and they have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to strike
the earth with all plagues, as often as they desire.”
The book of Revelation tells us that those who add or take away from the
testimony of the book of Revelation will receive the plagues that are written
in the book (Revelation 22:18). Thus, the book of Revelation pours out
plagues upon those who seek to change its message.
The question at this point is this: In what sense do the two witnesses have
power to open and shut heaven? The answer is that they have the keys of the
kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 16:19 describes the keys that open or shut the kingdom of heaven:
“And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on
earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in
heaven."
The dual form ‘keys’ without a qualifying number refers to two keys. Thus, the
keys have the same meaning as the two witnesses. How do the two
witnesses—the keys—open and shut heaven? The answer is that when God’s
messengers preach the Word of God through the ministration of the Holy Spirit,
people either accept or reject the message. If they reject it, the kingdom of
heaven closes. If they accept message, the kingdom of heaven opens before
them (see the problematic passage in John 20:21-23 and compare Matthew

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 197 of 379
18:15, 18). With one sermon from the Word of God, Peter opened the kingdom
of heaven to three thousand souls on the day of Pentecost (Acts 2:37, 38).
The problem with the theologians in Christ’s day is that they did not preach the
Word of God but rather their own traditions. Matthew 23:2, 13 tells us that the
Scribes and Pharisees sat on Moses’ Seat and shut the kingdom of heaven:
Matthew 23:2, 13
"The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat . . . 13 "But woe to you, scribes
and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men;
for you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go
in.”
The Roman Catholic Jerome Bible Commentary explains the meaning of
Moses’ Seat:
“The phrase [Moses’ Seat] is most probably a metaphor for the authority of the
scribes to teach. In rabbinical tradition, the interpretation of the Law was
carried on in a scribal tradition that theoretically went back through an
unbroken chain of scribes to Moses. This view is, of course, entirely
unhistorical.” The Jerome Bible Commentary, volume 2 (New York: Prentice Hall,
Inc., 1968), p. 102)
Luke 11:52 tells us that the Scribes took away the key (singular) of
knowledge and thus closed the kingdom to themselves and others:
"Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did
not enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in you hindered."
‘The keys of the kingdom of heaven’" are the words of Christ. All the words of
Holy Scripture are His, and are here included. These words have power to open
and to shut heaven. They declare the conditions upon which men are received
or rejected. Thus, the work of those who preach God's word is a savor of life unto
life or of death unto death. Theirs is a mission weighted with eternal results. DA
pp. 413, 414
In the days of Elijah, apostasy led to the closing of heaven for three and a half
literal years (James 5:17, 18) as the two witnesses closed heaven for three and
a half symbolic years. 1 Kings 17:1 tells us that the word of Elijah had the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 198 of 379
power to shut heaven or open it. When Israel was in apostasy Elijah’s word
shut heaven. When Israel repented of her apostasy, rain came once again. God
had already told Israel that apostasy would lead to a withdrawal of rain
2 Chronicles 6:26, 27
"When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned
against You, when they pray toward this place and confess Your name and turn
from their sin because You afflict them, 27 then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin
of Your servants, Your people Israel, that You may teach them the good way in
which they should walk; and send rain on Your land which You have given to
Your people as an inheritance.”
The apostasy of the Christian church was the reason for the shutting of
heaven in the days of the prophecy of the two witnesses. The Word of God and
the Holy Spirit were scarce in those days as they were in the days of Elijah (on
the word ‘apostasy’ for this period see 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4 (see also,
Revelation 2:20-23).
Revelation 11:7
“When they finish their testimony, the beast that ascends out of the bottomless
pit will make war against them, overcome them, and kill them.”
The translation ‘when they finish’ is misleading because it leaves the
impression that the beast from the abyss ascended after the 1260 years
concluded in 1798. However, the same word ‘finished’ appears in 2 Timothy
4:7 where Paul was in prison and stated that he had finished the race.
However, Paul was still alive when he said this. The same word also appears
in John 17:4 where Jesus, on His way to Gethsemane, prayed to His Father and
said that He had finished His work on earth. However, Jesus still had to go to
Gethsemane and to the cross where He would say, “It is finished.” Thus, Ellen
White is correct when she quoted verse 7 and added in brackets, ‘are finishing’
their testimony.
Ellen White identified the beast from the abyss as revolutionary France:
"The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them,
and shall overcome them, and kill them." The atheistical power that ruled in
France during the Revolution and the Reign of Terror did wage such a war

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 199 of 379
against God and His holy word as the world had never witnessed. The National
Assembly did abolish the worship of the Deity. Bibles were collected and publicly
burned with every possible manifestation of scorn.” GC p. 273
As I mentioned before, Revelation 11:2ff is a further expansion of the fifth
trumpet (Revelation 9:1-12) where the shaft of the bottomless pit is opened
and King Abaddon or Apollyon leads an army of demons to hurt and sting
people. Those who are stung do not die, but rather embrace a painful and
pessimistic outlook on life.
“When France publicly rejected God and set aside the Bible, wicked men and
spirits of darkness exulted in their attainment of the object so long desired—a
kingdom free from the restraints of the law of God.” GC p. 286
“The restraining Spirit of God, which imposes a check upon the cruel power of
Satan, was in a great measure removed [the shaft of the bottomless pit was
opened with the key and Satan and his angels were given free reign], and
he whose only delight is the wretchedness of men was permitted to work his
will. Those who had chosen the service of rebellion were left to reap its fruits
until the land was filled with crimes too horrible for pen to trace.” GC p. 286
Ellen White made an explicit connection between the 1260 years and the beast
from the bottomless pit:
“As they were approaching the termination of their work in obscurity, war was
to be made upon them by the power represented as "the beast that ascendeth
out of the bottomless pit." GC p. 268
"When they shall have finished [are finishing] their testimony." The period when
the two witnesses were to prophesy clothed in sackcloth, ended in 1798. As they
were approaching the termination of their work in obscurity, war was to be
made upon them by the power represented as; the beast that ascendeth out of
the bottomless pit.’ In many of the nations of Europe, the powers that ruled in
church and state had for centuries been controlled by Satan through the medium
of the papacy. But here is brought to view a new manifestation of satanic
power.” GC p. 268
“It had been Rome's policy, under a profession of reverence for the Bible, to keep
it locked up in an unknown tongue and hidden away from the people. Under her


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 200 of 379
rule, the witnesses prophesied, ‘clothed in sackcloth.’ But another power
beast—the beast from the bottomless pit—was to arise to make open, avowed
war upon the word of God.” GC p. 269
The renowned church historian, Philip Schaff, once stated to the American
Society of Church History:
“France rejected the Reformation—and reaped the Revolution.” (Schaff,
Progress, p. 44)
Revelation 11:8
“And their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city which spiritually is
called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.”
The word ‘spiritually’ in the NKJV indicates that we are dealing with symbols
and not with literal geographical locations:
    NIV has “figuratively”
    NASB has “mystically”;
    ESV has “symbolically”
    RSV has “allegorically”
    NRSV has “prophetically”
With the exception of Revelation 21:10 (where the New Jerusalem is
described) the ‘great city’ in Revelation is always identified with Babylon
(Revelation 14:8; 16:19; 17:18; 18:10, 16, 18, 19, 21).
Historians have referred to France as the eldest daughter of the papacy
because she was the papacy’s first and staunchest supporter. France
persecuted God’s people to the death more than any other kingdom of Europe
(for example the St. Bartholomew Massacre).
“Unhappy France reaped in blood the harvest she had sown. Terrible were the
results of her submission to the controlling power of Rome. Where France,
under the influence of Romanism, had set up the first stake at the opening of the
Reformation, there the Revolution set up its first guillotine. On the very spot
where the first martyrs to the Protestant faith were burned in the sixteenth
century, the first victims were guillotined in the eighteenth. In repelling the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 201 of 379
gospel, which would have brought her healing, France had opened the door to
infidelity and ruin. When the restraints of God's law were cast aside, it was
found that the laws of man were inadequate to hold in check the powerful tides
of human passion; and the nation swept on to revolt and anarchy. The war
against the Bible inaugurated an era, which stands in the world's history as the
Reign of Terror. Peace and happiness were banished from the homes and hearts
of men. No one was secure. He who triumphed today was suspected, condemned,
tomorrow. Violence and lust held undisputed sway.” GC p. 282
It is significant that France was the tenth part of the city mentioned later in
the prophecy. The ten horns were the ten kingdoms of Europe but only one of
them fell at this time.
“According to the words of the prophet, then, a little before the year 1798 some
power of satanic origin and character would rise to make war upon the Bible.
And in the land where the testimony of God's two witnesses should thus be
silenced, there would be manifest the atheism of the Pharaoh and the
licentiousness of Sodom.” This prophecy has received a most exact and
striking fulfillment in the history of France.” GC p. 269
The Bible describes the atheistic hardihood of Egypt in the days of Moses:
Exodus 5:2
“And Pharaoh said, ‘Who is the Lord that I should obey His voice to let Israel go?
I do not know the Lord, nor will I let Israel go.’”
Ezekiel 29:3 tells us that Pharaoh claimed to have creative powers:
“Speak, and say, 'Thus says the Lord God: ‘Behold, I am against you, O Pharaoh
king of Egypt, O great monster who lies in the midst of his rivers, who has said,
'My River is my own; I have made it for myself.'”
Daniel 11:40 describes the king of the south (identified as Egypt in verses 8-
11) who rose against the king of the north at the time of the end. The time of
the end begins in 1798. This is the identical chronological point when the
beast from the abyss arose in Revelation 11.
The king of the south in 1798 was France who manifested the same defiant
spirit as ancient Egypt and the king of the north is the papacy:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 202 of 379
“No monarch ever ventured upon more open and highhanded rebellion
against the authority of Heaven than did the king of Egypt. When the message
was brought him by Moses, in the name of the Lord, Pharaoh proudly answered:
"Who is Jehovah that I should hearken unto His voice to let Israel go? I know not
Jehovah, and moreover I will not let Israel go." Exodus 5:2, A.R.V. This is
atheism, and the nation represented by Egypt would give voice to a similar
denial of the claims of the living God and would manifest a like spirit of unbelief
and defiance.” GC p. 269
‘The great city’ is also compared, ‘spiritually,' to Sodom. The corruption of Sodom
in breaking the law of God was especially manifested in licentiousness. And this
sin was also to be a pre-eminent characteristic of the nation that should fulfill
the specifications of this scripture.” GC p. 269
Even today, we use the words sodomy and sodomize to describe sexual
perversion (Genesis 19:5-8; Jude 7).
"Where also our Lord was crucified." France also fulfilled this specification of the
prophecy. In no land had the spirit of enmity against Christ been more
strikingly displayed. In no country had the truth encountered more bitter and
cruel opposition. In the persecution which France had visited upon the confessors
of the gospel, she had crucified Christ in the person of His disciples.” GC p. 271
The church is the body of Christ, and whoever touches His body touches him.
When Saul of Tarsus went on the road to Damascus to persecute Christians,
Jesus met him and said, ‘why do you persecute me?’ In the parable of the sheep
and the goats (Matthew 25:31-46) Jesus stated that what we do unto others
we do unto Him. Whoever who touches His people, touches the apple of His
eye (Zechariah 2:8). We are his body, his sheep, his army, his bride.
“The same master spirit [the beast from the bottomless pit] that urged on
the St. Bartholomew Massacre led also in the scenes of the Revolution. Jesus
Christ was declared to be an impostor, and the rallying cry of the French infidels
was, ‘Crush the Wretch,’ meaning Christ.” GC p. 273
Jesus is the Word of God in person and the Bible is His written biography.
France, the eldest daughter of the papacy crucified Christ by crucifying the
Bible. By killing the two witnesses, they killed Christ because the two
Testaments give witness to Christ. It is possible to crucify Jesus afresh

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 203 of 379
(Hebrews 6:4-6; 1Corinthians 11:27). The Bible received the same vile
treatment in the French Revolution that Jesus did in his trial and execution.
The revolutionaries tried, judged, mistreated and executed Bible. However,
Christ in the two witnesses resurrected and ascended to heaven.
Concerning the St. Bartholomew Massacre, Ellen White remarks:
“As Christ was the invisible leader of His people from Egyptian bondage, so was
Satan the unseen leader of his subjects in this horrible work of multiplying
martyrs. For seven days, the massacre was continued in Paris, the first three with
inconceivable fury. And it was not confined to the city itself, but by special order
of the king was extended to all the provinces and towns where Protestants were
found. Neither age nor sex was respected. Neither the innocent babe nor the man
of gray hairs was spared. Noble and peasant, old and young, mother and child,
were cut down together. Throughout France the butchery continued for two
months. Seventy thousand of the very flower of the nation perished.” GC p. 272
Revelation 11:9
“Then those from the peoples, tribes, tongues, and nations will see their [of the
two witnesses] dead bodies three-and-a-half days, and not allow their dead
bodies to be put into graves.”
In ancient Rome, denying a person burial was the utmost insult reserved
only for the worst criminals. This is the way that France treated the two
witnesses during the Revolution.
On November 23, 1793, the national assembly gave a decree that all churches
and religious services were to cease. On June 17, 1797, France gave a decree
allowing religious services once again.
Revelation 11:10
“And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them, make merry, and send
gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on
the earth.”
The word of God torments those who disobey it but brings peace to those
who obey it. The pangs of conscience are painful to the transgressor.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 204 of 379
“Infidel France had silenced the reproving voice of God's two witnesses. The
word of truth lay dead in her streets, and those who hated the restrictions and
requirements of God's law were jubilant.” GC p. 274
“Deprived of the Bible, and abandoned to the teachings of bigotry and
selfishness, the people were shrouded in ignorance and superstition, and sunken
in vice, so that they were wholly unfitted for self-government.” GC p. 281
“But the outworking of all this was widely different from what Rome had
purposed. Instead of holding the masses in a blind submission to her dogmas,
her work resulted in making them infidels and revolutionists. Romanism they
despised as priest craft. They beheld the clergy as a party to their oppression.
The only god they knew was the god of Rome; her teaching was their only
religion. They regarded her greed and cruelty as the legitimate fruit of the Bible,
and they would have none of it.” GC p. 281
Revelation 11:11
“Now after the three-and-a-half days the breath of life from God entered them,
and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.”
On November 23, 1793, the National Assembly uttered a decree abolishing
religion but on June 17, 1797, the French government removed the
restrictions against the practice of religion.
“God's faithful witnesses, slain by the blasphemous power that ‘ascendeth out of
the bottomless pit,’ were not long to remain silent. ‘After three days and a half
the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and
great fear fell upon them which saw them.’ Revelation 11:11. It was in 1793 that
the decrees that abolished the Christian religion and set aside the Bible passed
the French Assembly. Three years and a half later a resolution rescinding these
decrees, thus granting toleration to the Scriptures, was adopted by the same
body.” GC p. 287
Revelation 11:12
“And they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, ‘Come up here.’ And
they ascended to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies saw them.”
The key question here is this: Who are the enemies who saw the two
witnesses ascend to heaven after they resurrected? The first part of chapter

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 205 of 379
11 provides the answer. In the first instance, their enemies are the ones who
exiled them during the 1260 years. The second enemy is the beast that arose
from the bottomless pit. Both groups would watch the marvelous
resurrection of the two witnesses. According to Revelation 10, the witnesses
resurrected when the little book of Daniel 8-12 was unsealed and knowledge
of Bible prophecy increased. This happened exactly in 1798, as we shall see
when we study Revelation 10.
“Concerning the two witnesses the prophet declares further: ‘And they heard a
great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended
up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.’ Revelation 11:12. Since
France made war upon God's two witnesses, they have been honored as never
before. In 1804 the British and Foreign Bible Society was organized. This was
followed by similar organizations, with numerous branches, upon the continent
of Europe. In 1816, the American Bible Society was founded. When the British
Society was formed, the Bible had been printed and circulated in fifty tongues.
It has since been translated into many hundreds of languages and dialects.”
GC p. 287
“For the fifty years preceding 1792, little attention was given to the work of
foreign missions. No new societies were formed, and there were but few churches
that made any effort for the spread of Christianity in heathen lands. However,
toward the close of the eighteenth century a great change took place. Men
became dissatisfied with the results of rationalism [notice how she links the
dissatisfaction with rationalism that began with Descartes] and realized
the necessity of divine revelation and experimental religion. From this time
the work of foreign missions attained an unprecedented growth.”
“The improvements in printing have given an impetus to the work of circulating
the Bible. The increased facilities for communication between different
countries, the breaking down of ancient barriers of prejudice and national
exclusiveness, and the loss of secular power by the pontiff of Rome have opened
the way for the entrance of the word of God. For some years the Bible has been
sold without restraint in the streets of Rome, and it has now been carried to
every part of the habitable globe.” GC pp. 287, 288




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 206 of 379
“While a student at school, Gaussen had encountered that spirit of rationalism
which pervaded all Europe during the latter part of the eighteenth and the
opening of the nineteenth century; and when he entered the ministry he was
not only ignorant of true faith, but inclined to skepticism . . . He could not rest
satisfied with the teachings of rationalism, and in studying the Bible and
searching for clearer light he was, after a time, led to a positive faith. GC p. 364
Revelation 11:13
“In the same hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. In
the earthquake seven thousand people were killed, and the rest [loipos:
remnant, same word as Revelation 12:17] were afraid [feared] and gave
glory to the God of heaven.”
“France was shaken as if by an earthquake. Religion, law, social order, the
family, the state, and the church—all were smitten down by the impious hand
that had been lifted against the law of God.” GC p. 286
Only a fraction of the great city fell during the French Revolution. Revelation
16:17-21 describes the final global and cataclysmic earthquake that will
destroy the totality of Babylon. The events of the French Revolution actually
foreshadow the events that will transpire during the last three plagues of
Revelation 16.
Verse 12 addresses the enemies of God’s people who see the witnesses
resurrect. However, Revelation 11:13 also brings to view a remnant who
feared God and gave Him glory. This is a direct reference to the first angel’s
message. That is to say, we have here the introduction to the first angel’s
message, which falls within the period of the sixth trumpet.
The book of Revelation uses the expression, ‘give glory to God’ in a positive
sense. The righteous fear God and give glory to Him (Revelation 14:7). The
wicked never give glory to God in the book of Revelation; they rather do not
give Him glory (Revelation 16:9).
A Future Event Similar to the French Revolution
“At the same time anarchy is seeking to sweep away all law, not only divine, but
human. The centralizing of wealth and power; the vast combinations for the
enriching of the few at the expense of the many; the combinations of the poorer

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 207 of 379
classes for the defense of their interests and claims; the spirit of unrest, of riot
and bloodshed; the world-wide dissemination of the same teachings that led to
the French Revolution--all are tending to involve the whole world in a struggle
similar to that which convulsed France.” Ed p. 228
The Passion of Jesus and the Bible
We must read the story of the two witnesses in the light of the passion, death
and resurrection of Jesus:
    Jesus carried on a ministry of three and a half years in the midst of great
     persecution and opposition.
    When Jesus was about to finish His testimony, demons united with men
     were let loose and they made merry over him. This was the hour of the
     powers of darkness (Luke 22:3). Satan and his angels unleashed all their
     power against Jesus.
    The enemies of Jesus treated Him as the French revolutionaries treated
     the Scriptures, dragging him down the streets and making merry
     (Matthew 27:50-54).
    The enemies of Jesus gazed upon Him as He hung on the cross.
    There was a great earthquake when Jesus died and when he resurrected
     (Matthew 28:2).
      “An earthquake marked the hour when Christ laid down His life, and
      another earthquake witnessed the moment when He took it up in triumph.
      He who had vanquished death and the grave came forth from the tomb with
      the tread of a conqueror, amid the reeling of the earth, the flashing of
      lightning, and the roaring of thunder.” DA p. 780
    “Nature sympathized with the suffering of its Author. The heaving earth,
     the rent rocks, proclaimed that it was the Son of God who died. There was
     a mighty earthquake. The veil of the Temple was rent in twain. Terror
     seized the executioners and spectators as they beheld the sun veiled in
     darkness, and felt the earth shake beneath them, and saw and heard the
     rending of the rocks. The mocking and jeering of the chief priests and elders
     were hushed as Christ commended His spirit into the hands of His Father.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 208 of 379
   The astonished throng began to withdraw and grope their way in the
   darkness to the city. They smote upon their breasts as they went and in
   terror, speaking scarcely above a whisper, said among themselves: ‘It is an
   innocent person that has been murdered. What if, indeed, He is, as He
   asserted, the Son of God?’” LHU p. 42
 When Jesus died, there was fear on the part of the centurion (Matthew
  27:54) and there was fear when He resurrected (Matthew 28:4; Mark
  16:5, 8).
 Jesus was caught up to heaven in a cloud after being slain (Acts 1:9-11).
 After Jesus resurrected the gospel spread like a California grassfire and
  no one was able to detain it (Acts 1:6-8).




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 209 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 210 of 379
         “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
            A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                         BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


CHAPTER 8: MATTHEW, LUKE AND THE TIMES
            OF THE GENTILES
A study of the two witnesses in Revelation 11 would not be complete without
taking some time to study parallel passages in Matthew 24 and Luke 21 that
bear directly on the subject at hand.

Matthew 24 and Luke 21

Matthew 24 presents four sequential signs:
     The destruction of earthly Jerusalem (verses 15-20)
     A period of tribulation (verses 21-28)
     Signs in the sun and moon (verse 29)
     Powers in the heavens are shaken and the Son of Man appears (verses
      30-31)
However, Luke 21 is the parallel passage and appears to have only three
sequential signs:
   The destruction of earthly Jerusalem (verses 20-24)
   Signs in the sun, moon and stars (verse 25)



  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 211 of 379
    The powers of the heaven will be shaken and the coming of the Son of
     Man (verses 25, 26)
The sign that appears to be missing in Luke 21 is the tribulation sign. However,
is the tribulation sign really missing in Luke? The answer is no. Luke simply
describes the tribulation sign differently as the period during which the
gentiles would trample upon Jerusalem.

Literal and Spiritual Jerusalem

One thing is clear from the first part of Luke 21:24. This part of the verse found
its fulfillment in the destruction of the literal city of Jerusalem and its temple:
“And they will fall by the edge of the sword and be led away captive into all
nations.”
On the other hand, the second part of Luke 21:24 describes the trampling of
spiritual Jerusalem by spiritual Gentiles for a symbolic period:
“And Jerusalem will be trampled by Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are
fulfilled [completed].”
In other words, in Luke 21:24 there are two cities of Jerusalem, one literal and
one symbolic, two tramplings, one literal and one symbolic and two groups of
gentiles, one literal and one symbolic.
Louis Were expressed a very important principle of prophetic interpretation:
“When passing over into the Christian Era there is an automatic transition from
literal to spiritual Babylon; from literal to spiritual Jerusalem; from literal
lands of Israel and Babylon to their spiritual antitypes.” Louis F. Were, The King
of the North at Jerusalem, p. 75
When the second part of Luke 21:24 describes the trampling of Jerusalem it is
not referring to the physical city of brick and mortar; Jesus is personifying the
city. Notice the following texts that use the word ‘Jerusalem’ to refer to the
people in the city:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 212 of 379
2 Kings 24:14-15
“Also he carried into captivity all Jerusalem: all the captains and all the mighty
men of valor, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None
remained except the poorest people of the land.”
Obviously, Nebuchadnezzar did not carry the literal city of Jerusalem—with
buildings and all—into captivity.
Luke 19:41-44: As He descended the Mount of Olives, Jesus personified the
city of Jerusalem:
Now as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it, 42 saying, "If you had
known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace!
However, now they are hidden from your eyes. 43 For days will come upon you
when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and
close you in on every side, 44 and level you, and your children within you, to the
ground; and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did
not know the time of your visitation."
Matthew 23:37-39: Clearly, the brick and mortar did not kill the prophets!
"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who
are sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen
gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing! 38 See! Your house
is left to you desolate; 39 for I say to you, you shall see Me no more till you say,
'Blessed is He who comes in the name of the LORD!' "

Four Key Elements in Luke 21:24B and Revelation 11:2

There are four key elements in Luke 21:24B:
      ‘Jerusalem’
      ‘trampling’
      ‘gentiles’
      ‘times’ (the word ‘until’ specifies a definite ending point)
Revelation 11:2, 3
“However, leave out the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it,
for it has been given [was given] to the Gentiles. And they will tread the holy city

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 213 of 379
underfoot for forty-two months. 3 And I will give power to my two witnesses, and
they will prophesy one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in
sackcloth."
When John wrote Revelation 11:2 at the end of the first century, the Romans
had destroyed the literal city of Jerusalem and it had been in ruins for 25
years. The gentiles had already taken the Jews captive so this cannot refer to
the trampling of the literal city of Jerusalem in the year 70 A. D.
“Even the literal treading down of the outer sanctuary had taken place more
than forty-two months before John's time, implying that the number was
symbolic for the whole period from its devastation in some sense until its
restoration.”
Revelation 11:2 contains the very same four elements that Jesus mentioned in
Luke 21:24B:
      ‘Holy City’ (‘Jerusalem’)
      ‘trampling’
      ‘gentiles’
      ‘42 months’ (‘times of the gentiles’)
Who are the gentiles? What does the word ‘Jerusalem’ mean? We have already
pointed out that Jerusalem during the Christian dispensation refers to God’s
faithful church and gentiles refers to those who are enemies of Christ’s true
church. Several texts make this clear (Revelation 3:9; Matthew 18:15-18 tells
us that it is possible for a believer to be considered a gentile rather than a
spiritual citizen of spiritual Jerusalem; Romans 9:6-8; Romans 2:28, 29;
Galatians 3:26-29; John 1:47-49; John 4:23, 24; John 8:31-58).
In Revelation 11:1 the Angel told John to measure the temple and those who
worship in it but not to measure the court because ‘it was given’ to the gentiles
for 42 months (the sanctuary and the host). When John wrote the book of
Revelation, Rome had already destroyed the literal temple and the literal
Jews had been scattered among the nations. This means that the temple
referred to here must be the one in heaven (Hebrews, Revelation) and the
worshipers must be those who worship there spiritually. We are to



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 214 of 379
understand that the temple is the heavenly sanctuary literally and the church
spiritually.

The Link between Revelation 11:2, 3 Daniel 7 and 8

According to Revelation 11:2, the trampling of the city occurs for a period of 42
months, also described, in the following verse as 1260 days. This links the 42
months of verse 2 with the 1260 days of verse 3. Furthermore, it links
Revelation 11:2, 3 with the 1260 days of Revelation 12:14, the 42 months of
Revelation 13:5 and the ‘time, times and the dividing of time’ of Revelation
12:6.
    42 months (Revelation 11:2)
    1260 days (Revelation 11:3)
    1260 days (Revelation 12:6)
    42 months (Revelation 13:5)
    3.5 times (Revelation 12:14)
    3.5 times (Daniel 7:25)
In order to understand Revelation 11:2, 3 we must go back to the Old
Testament roots of this prophecy and we find those roots in Daniel 7:21, 25;
8:11-13; 11:31-35. In these verses, we find a power that tramples underfoot
the temple of God and its true worshipers, not by the Roman Empire (that
had already passed away), but by a rebellious little horn that introduced an
idolatrous ‘Christian’ worship that caused desolation.
According to Daniel 7:21, 25 this little horn blasphemed God and persecuted
His people for 3.5 prophetic times.
Let us consider the historical framework of the little horn’s work in Daniel 7:
      Lion: Babylon
      Bear: Medes and Persians
      Leopard: Greece
      Dragon: Rome
      10 horns: Division of the Roman Empire
      Little horn: Papacy (3.5 times)



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 215 of 379
“He [the little horn] shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall
persecute the saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law.
Then the saints shall be given into his hand for a time and times and half a
time.”
Immediately after the nefarious work of the little horn, the judgment in the
heavenly temple begins (Daniel 7:8-10; Revelation 11:1). This order of events
is very similar to Revelation 11:1-3 where the measuring of the heavenly naós
(Daniel 7:8, 9, 13, 14, 21, 22, 25-27) follows the trampling of Jerusalem for 42
months. These verses prove that the measuring of the temple follows the
trampling of the city and not vice-versa.
Daniel 8 further amplifies the nefarious work of this little horn power by
specifically saying that it trampled on the sanctuary and the host (Daniel
8:13), language very similar to Revelation 11:2, 3.
Daniel 8 describes two distinct stages of this little horn power. One stage is
horizontal and the other vertical and both are Roman.
Daniel 8:9: Horizontal on earth:
“And out of one of them came a little horn which grew exceedingly great toward
the south, toward the east, and toward the Glorious Land.”
Daniel 8:10-13: Vertical toward heaven:
“And it grew up to the host of heaven; and it cast down some of the host and
some of the stars to the ground, and trampled them. 11 He even exalted
himself as high as the Prince of the host; and by him the daily sacrifices were
taken away, and the place of His sanctuary was cast down. 12 Because of
transgression, an army was given over to the horn to oppose the daily sacrifices;
and he cast truth down to the ground. He did all this and prospered. 13 Then I
heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said to that certain one who was
speaking, "How long will the vision be, concerning the daily sacrifices and the
transgression of desolation, the giving of both the sanctuary and the host to be
trampled underfoot?"
Revelation 13:1, 2, 5-7 also mentions the 42 months. There, the beast
persecutes the saints and blasphemes the heavenly tabernacle and those who


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 216 of 379
dwell in heaven. The sequence of powers is identical to the one in Daniel 7
(lion, bear, leopard, dragon, 10 horns and beast). The inevitable conclusion is
that this Jerusalem is in the Christian era after the demise of the Roman
Empire.

Link between Daniel 7 and 8 and Revelation 11 and 13

The sequence of powers in Revelation 13:1, 2, 5:
      Lion
      Bear
      Leopard
      Dragon
      10 Horns
      Beast (42 months)
Revelation 13:5-7
“And he was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and he was
given authority to continue for forty-two months. 6 Then he opened his mouth in
blasphemy against God, to blaspheme His name, His tabernacle, and those who
dwell in heaven. 7 It was granted to him to make war with the saints and to
overcome them. And authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and
nation.”
As noted before, the Revelation 13:5-7 and Revelation 11:2 bear a close
relationship because both mention the same period—42 months

Daniel 7 and Revelation 12

Furthermore, Revelation 11:3 bears a relationship with Revelation 12:6
because both refer to the 1260 days.
Even further, the terminology of Revelation 12:6 shares common language
with Revelation 12:14 and Revelation 12:14 in turn has a connection with
Daniel 7:25 by the common reference to the ‘time, times and the dividing of
time’.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 217 of 379
Revelation 12:13, 14
“Now when the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the
woman who gave birth to the male Child. 14 But the woman was given two wings
of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is
nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the
serpent."
Revelation 12:6
“Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by
God that they should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty
days.”
Daniel 7:25
“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints
of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall
be given into his hand for a time and times and half a time.”
Therefore, we can safely reach the conclusion that the 3.5 times, the 1260 days
and the 42 months are all parallel expressions. A careful study of these time
prophecies indicates clearly that their fulfillment took place during a 1260-year
period after the disintegration of the Roman Empire. This means that the
Jerusalem spoken of is not literal Jerusalem but rather, spiritual Jerusalem
because literal Jerusalem had already been devastated by the year 70 A. D.
The Presbyterian minister, Albert Barnes was right on target when he wrote:
“This [the 42 months] would embrace the whole period of the ascendency and
prevalence of the papacy, or the whole time of the continuance of that corrupt
domination in which Christendom was to be trodden down and corrupted by
it. . . Thus regarded, this would properly express the time of the ascendency of the
papal power, and the end of the ‘forty-two months,’ or ‘twelve hundred and sixty
years’, would denote the time when the influence of that power would cease.”
(From Barnes' Notes, Electronic Database Copyright © 1997, 2003, 2005, 2006
by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved).




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 218 of 379
Thoughts on Daniel 9:26, 27

We have reached the conclusion that the two halves of Luke 21:24 describe two
distinct ‘tramplings’ of two different ‘Jerusalems’. The first half describes
literal Jerusalem trampled by the literal Romans. The second half of the verse
describes the trampling of spiritual Jerusalem (the Church) by spiritual
Rome (the papacy). Revelation 11:2 expands upon the second half of Luke
21:24.
Now let us take a few moments to focus on Daniel 9:26, 27
Daniel 9:26-27
"And after the sixty-two weeks Messiah shall be cut off, but not for Himself; and
the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary.
The end of it shall be with a flood, and till the end of the war desolations are
determined. 27 Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week; but in
the middle of the week He shall bring an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the
wing of abominations shall be one who makes desolate, even until the
consummation, which is determined, is poured out on the desolate."
These verses describe the trampling of literal Jerusalem in the year 70 AD. It is
significant that the very words abomination and desolation that appear in
Matthew 24:15 appear here.
It is probable that Daniel 9:26, 27 refers not only to a future desolation of
literal Jerusalem in the year 70 AD but also to a subsequent desolation at the
end of time. This seems to be the case because of the plural form ‘desolations’.
The plural form implies more than one desolation.
If this is the case, then the first part of Daniel 9:26, 27 depicts the first
desolation of literal Jerusalem in AD 70 (as does the first part of Luke 21:24)
while the second part of Daniel 9:27 describes the desolation of spiritual
Jerusalem that Jesus described in the second part of Luke 21:24.
Matthew and Mark refer to this period as the tribulation, a word that Jesus
referred to as the trampling of Jerusalem by the Gentiles.
This interpretation fits very well with the fact that Jesus blended the
description of the literal Jerusalem and spiritual Jerusalem:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 219 of 379
“The prophecy which He uttered was twofold in its meaning; while
foreshadowing the destruction of Jerusalem, it prefigured also the terrors of the
last great day. GC p. 25
“The Savior's prophecy concerning the visitation of judgments upon Jerusalem is
to have another fulfillment, of which that terrible desolation was but a faint
shadow. In the fate of the chosen city we may behold the doom of a world that
has rejected God's mercy and trampled upon his law.” GC p. 36
According to Revelation 13:3 the deadly wound of the papacy will heal and then
she will continue the abominations she practiced during the first stage of her
existence. Revelation 17 describes this time by using the words
“abominations” and “desolate”.
Revelation 17:4-6, 15, 16
“The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and
precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations
and the filthiness of her fornication. 5 And on her forehead a name was written:
MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE
ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. 6 I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the
saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled
with great amazement . . . 15 Then he said to me, "The waters which you saw, where
the harlot sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. 16 And the ten horns
which you saw on the beast, these will hate the harlot, make her desolate and
naked, eat her flesh and burn her with fire.”
Even further, 2 Thessalonians 2 explains that there would be a long period of
apostasy (the times of the gentiles or 42 months in Matthew and Revelation)
before Jesus comes. This is the sign that Jesus mentioned in the second part of
Luke 21:24 and Revelation 11:2.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 220 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


       CHAPTER 9: THE LITTLE SEALED BOOK

Introduction
A review of the chiastic structure of Daniel 1-7 reveals that the book of Daniel
is actually composed of two books in one. The first book embraces chapters one
to seven and the second Daniel eight to twelve.
Here is the structure of the first book, Daniel 1-7:
      Chapter 1: Introduction to the book
      Chapters 2 and 7: Chain prophecies
      Chapters 3 and 6: Conflict over the law and worship
      Chapters 4 and 5: The arrogance of Babylon and the fall of its leaders




                    (this space is blank intentionally)




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 221 of 379
The First Book
Daniel 7 describes a sequence of powers that lead up to the time of the
judgment:
   Lion (Babylon) 605-539 BC (Daniel 7:4)
   Bear (Medes and Persians) 539-331 BC (Daniel 7:5)
   Leopard (Greece) 331-168 BC (Daniel 7:6)
   Dragon (Roman Empire) 168 BC-476 AD (Daniel 7:7)
   Ten horns (Roman Empire divided) 476 AD - 538 AD (Daniel 7:7, 23)
   Little horn (Papal Rome during the 1260 years) 538 AD - 1798 AD
    (Daniel 7:8, 24, 25)
   The judgment (the [1] investigation, the [2] verdict and the [3]
    execution or reward) No precise date given in Daniel 7, but the process
    will begin sometime after 1798 (Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14, 17, 18, 21, 22, 26,
    27)


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 222 of 379
    In consequence of the judgment, Christ and His saints will possess the
     kingdoms of the world (Daniel 7:14, 22, 26, 27)
Note: The sequence of powers indicates that the judgment would begin
sometime after 1798 and would conclude with Christ receiving the kingdom
from His Father. No one before October 23, 1844 understood that the judgment
would occur in three stages (investigative in heaven, sentencing in heaven
and rewarding on earth).
Daniel 7:9-10, 13, 14, 18, 21, 22: Daniel 7 runs in four repetitive cycles:

    Daniel 7:9, 10
    Daniel 7:17, 18
    Daniel 7:21, 22
    Daniel 7:25, 27

"I watched till thrones were put in place, and the Ancient of Days [in heaven]
was seated; His garment was white as snow, and the hair of His head was like pure
wool. His throne was a fiery flame, its wheels a burning fire; 10 A fiery stream
issued and came forth from before Him. A thousand thousands ministered to Him;
ten thousand times ten thousand stood before Him [in heaven]. The court was
seated [in heaven], and the books were opened [the investigation]. . . 13 "I was
watching in the night visions, and behold, One like the Son of Man, coming with
the clouds of heaven! He came to the Ancient of Days [in heaven], and they
brought Him near before Him [before the Father in heaven]. 14 Then to Him [to
Jesus] was given [by the Father in heaven] dominion and glory and a kingdom
[clearly Jesus receives the kingdom in heaven before the second coming],
that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him. His dominion is an
everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and His kingdom the one which
shall not be destroyed. . . 17 'Those great beasts, which are four, are four kings
which arise out of the earth but the saints of the Most High shall receive the
kingdom, and possess the kingdom [the execution of the sentence] forever,
even forever and ever.' 21 "I was watching; and the same horn was making war
against the saints, and prevailing against them, 22 until the Ancient of Days
came, and a judgment was made in favor of the saints [in heaven] of the Most


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 223 of 379
High [in heaven], and the time came [at the second coming] for the saints to
possess the kingdom [when Jesus comes]. . . 25 He [the little horn] shall speak
pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most High,
and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his
hand for a time and times and half a time. 26 'But the court shall be seated [for
the investigation], and they shall take away his dominion [in heaven], To
consume and destroy it forever. 27 Then the kingdom and dominion, and the
greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people
[on earth], the saints of the Most High. His [Jesus’] kingdom is an everlasting
kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him [Jesus].”
Summary of the three stages of the judgment in Daniel 7:
    The judgment sits, God opens the books in heaven, and the records of all
     those who have professed the name of Jesus are examined.
    When the investigation ends, God will pronounce a sentence in favor of
     the saints in heaven and the Father will give Christ the kingdom.
    Then the time will come when Jesus and His subjects will empirically
     possess the kingdom.

Ellen White, in full harmony with the Bible, understood that when the
investigation is over, the kingdom of Jesus is complete:
“Every case had been decided for life or death. While Jesus had been ministering
in the sanctuary, the [investigative] judgment had been going on for the
righteous dead, and then for the righteous living. Christ had received His
kingdom, having made the atonement for His people and blotted out their sins.
The subjects of the kingdom were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was
consummated. And the kingdom, and the greatness of the kingdom under the
whole heaven, was given to Jesus and the heirs of salvation, and Jesus was to
reign as King of kings and Lord of lords.” EW, p. 280




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 224 of 379
The Second Book
Daniel 12:4
“But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end;
many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall increase."
The second book in Daniel was closed and sealed in the days of the prophet
(around 538 BC), to be opened in the time of the end (1798). This verse has
nothing to do with the increase of science and technology. When God
removes the seal from the book at the time of the end, people will run to-and-
fro seeking an increased knowledge of the contents of the book. This is the
way that Ellen White invariably understood the expression, ‘knowledge shall
be increased’.
Amos 8:11, 12: The identical Hebrew idiom of ‘moving to and fro’ in Daniel 12:4
appears in Amos 8:11, 12:
‘Behold, the days are coming,’ says the Lord GOD, "that I will send a famine on the
land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the
LORD. They shall wander from sea to sea, and from north to east; they shall run to
and fro, seeking the word of the LORD, but shall not find it.”
The book that Daniel sealed until the time of the end (Daniel 12:4, 9) is not the
ENTIRE book of Daniel but rather the PORTION OR PART whose central theme
is the 2300 days and the beginning date for the heavenly investigative
judgment. We know this for at least five reasons:
Reason #1:
The book of Daniel contains two different languages. Chapter one, which is
the introduction to the entire book, is in Hebrew. Chapters 2-7 are in Aramaic
and chapters 8-12 are in Hebrew. The difference in language between Daniel
2-7 and Daniel 8-12 strongly hints that the book is composed of two distinct
units.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 225 of 379
Reason #2:
There is clear evidence that most of Daniel, chapters 1-7 (with the exception
of the judgment scene in Daniel 7), was understood long before the ‘time of
the end’. The church father Hippolytus who wrote in the third century A. D.
understood the sequence of powers in Daniel 7:
“In speaking of a ‘lioness from the sea’, he [Daniel] meant the rising of the
kingdom of Babylon and that this was the ‘golden head of the image’ . . . Then after
the lioness he sees a second beast, ‘like a bear’, which signified the Persians. For
after the Babylonians the Persians obtain the power. And in saying that ‘it had
three ribs in its mouth’, he pointed to the three nations, Persians, Medes, and
Babylonians, which were expressed in the image by the silver after the gold. Then
comes the third beast, ‘a leopard’, which means the Greeks; for after the Persians,
Alexander of Macedon had the power, when Darius was overthrown, which was
also indicated by the brass in the image. And in saying that the beast ‘had four
wings of a fowl, and four heads’, he showed most clearly how the kingdom of
Alexander was parted into four divisions. For in speaking of four heads, he
meant the four kings that arose out of it. For Alexander, when dying, divided his
kingdom into four parts. Then he says, ‘the fourth beast (was) dreadful and
terrible: it had iron teeth, and claws of brass’. Who, then, are meant by this but
the Romans, whose kingdom, the kingdom that still stands, is expressed by the
iron? ‘For’, says he, ‘its legs are of iron.’” L. E. Froom, The Prophetic Faith of Our
Fathers, volume 1, p. 272
Did Hippolytus also understand the meaning of the ten horns and the little
horn?
“Let us look at what is before us more carefully, and scan it, as it were, with open
eye. The ‘golden head of the image’ is identical with the ‘lioness’, by which the
Babylonians were represented. ‘The golden shoulders and arms of silver’ are the
same with the ‘bear’, by which the Persians and Medes are meant. ‘The belly and
thighs of brass’ are the ‘leopard’, by which the Greeks who ruled from Alexander
onwards are intended. The ‘legs of iron’ are the ‘dreadful and terrible beast’, by
which the Romans who hold the empire now are meant. The ‘toes of clay and iron’


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 226 of 379
are the ‘ten horns’ which are to be. The ‘one other little horn springing up in their
midst is the ‘antichrist’. The stone that ‘smites the image and breaks it in pieces’,
and that filled the whole earth, is Christ, who comes from heaven [notice that he
did not understand that there was going to be a heavenly pre-Advent
investigative judgment] and brings judgment on the world.” L. E. Froom, The
Prophetic Faith of our Fathers, volume 1, p. 272
The evidence from these quotations indicates that Hippolytus understood
everything about Daniel 7 except one vitally important detail, the investigative
pre-Advent judgment in heaven before the second coming. According to the
understanding of Hippolytus, the judgment would take place when Jesus comes
from heaven to earth to judge the world and establish His everlasting
kingdom! However, as we have already noted, the investigative judgment and
the verdict take place in heaven before Jesus returns to the earth.
We should note that people could understand some portions of Daniel that
found their fulfillment before the time of the end. The historical sections of
chapters 1-7 were easy to understand. Daniel 8 explained the meaning of the
ram and the he-goat long before the time of the end. The prophecy of the
seventy weeks was no mystery. People understood many of the early portions
of Daniel 11 before the time of the end. The pagan philosopher, Porphyry,
entertained a discussion with church father Tertullian arguing that the earlier
portions of Daniel 11 described so precisely Greek and early Roman history that
it could not have been written in the sixth century BC but rather by an
anonymous writer in the second century.
However, the time element relating to the heavenly pre-advent judgment
remained sealed until the time of the end. God commanded Daniel to seal the
message concerning the 2300 days and the heavenly pre-advent judgment
until the time of the end because only then would it be true that the hour of
God’s judgment had arrived.
Reason #3:
Ellen White explicitly states repeatedly in her writings that the book that
Daniel sealed until the time of the end was not the totality of the book of Daniel

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 227 of 379
but rather the PORTION or PART of the book that has to do with the date for
the beginning of the judgment as depicted in the 2300-day prophecy.
Following are some of her comments.
“In the Revelation all the books of the Bible meet and end. Here is the complement
of the book of Daniel. One is a prophecy; the other a revelation. The book that was
sealed is not the Revelation, but that portion of the prophecy of Daniel relating
to the last days. The angel commanded, "But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words,
and seal the book, even to the time of the end." Daniel 12:4.” Acts of the Apostles,
p. 585
“The message of salvation has been preached in all ages; but this message
[Revelation 14:6, 7] is a part of the gospel which could be proclaimed only in
the last days, for only then would it be true that the hour of judgment had come.
The prophecies present a succession of events leading down to the opening of
the judgment [the fulfillment of Daniel 7 and 8 begins in the days of the
prophet and continue in succession until the judgment]. This is especially true
of the book of Daniel. However, that part of his prophecy that related to the last
days, Daniel was bidden to close up and seal ‘to the time of the end.’ Not till we
reach this time could a message concerning the judgment be proclaimed, based
on the fulfillment of these prophecies. However, at the time of the end, says the
prophet, "many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." Daniel
12:4.” The Great Controversy, p. 355
“The words of the angel to Daniel relating to the last days were to be understood
in the time of the end. At that time, "many shall run to and fro, and knowledge
shall be increased." "The wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall
understand; but the wise shall understand." Daniel 12:4, 10” The Desire of Ages,
p. 234
“The unsealing of the little book was the message in relation to time [the 2300
days].” Manuscript Releases, volume 1, p. 99
“Honored by men with the responsibilities of state and with the secrets of
kingdoms bearing universal sway, Daniel was honored by God as His ambassador,
and was given many revelations of the mysteries of ages to come. His wonderful


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 228 of 379
prophecies, as recorded by him in chapters 7 to 12 of the book bearing his name,
were not fully understood even by the prophet himself; but before his life
labors closed, he was given the blessed assurance that ‘at the end of the days’—
in the closing period of this world's history—he would again be permitted to
stand in his lot and place [not in person but through the unsealing of his
book]. It was not given him to understand all that God had revealed of the
divine purpose. ‘Shut up the words, and seal the book,’ he was directed
concerning his prophetic writings; these were to be sealed ‘even to the time of
the end.’ ‘Go thy way, Daniel,’ the angel once more directed the faithful messenger
of Jehovah; ‘for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end. . . . Go
thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the end of
the days.’” Daniel 12:4, 9, 13 Prophets and Kings, p. 547
Reason #4:
The internal evidence of Daniel 8-12 proves beyond any doubt that these
chapters compose the little book sealed until the time of the end. These
chapters have a central theme that bonds the together—the 2300 days and the
beginning date for the heavenly investigative judgment. Let us consider the
content of these chapters, one by one to see how they relate to the 2300 days
and the heavenly judgment.
Daniel 8:
The vision in this chapter describes the historical chain of events that precede
the beginning of the investigative judgment:
    The ram with two horns: The vision begins with the Medo-Persian
     kingdom.
    The he-goat: The kingdom of Greece.
    The notable horn on the head of the he-goat: The first king of the Grecian
     dynasty, Alexander the Great.
    The four horns that came out on the head of the scapegoat after the great
     horn was broken: The four divisions of the Grecian Empire after
     Alexander’s death.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 229 of 379
    The little horn: Secular Rome extended horizontally on the earth
     toward the south, the east and the glorious land.
    The little horn then morphed into a power that grew vertically to
     heaven, persecuted the saints on earth and interfered with the work of
     Jesus in the heavenly sanctuary.
    The 2300 days at the end of which the sanctuary would be cleansed

The vision of Daniel 8 covers the period from the ram until the end of the 2300
days. When the ending point arrived, the process of cleansing the sanctuary
began.
The problem is that Daniel 8 provides us with the length of the time- period but
does not provide us with a starting point for the 2300-year prophecy so we
have no way of knowing when the prophecy begins or ends!
Four Differences
There are four differences between the prophecy of Daniel 8 and the
prophetic outlines of Daniel 2 and 7:
    First, while in Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 the prophetic series begins with the
     kingdom of Babylon (the gold and the lion) Daniel 8 has no symbol for
     the kingdom of Babylon. The vision begins during the period of the
     Persian kingdom.
      The usual argument given for the absence of Babylon in the vison of
      Daniel 8 is that the kingdom of Babylon was about to pass from history.
      However, the date that this chapter provides indicates that the kingdom
      of Babylon would not pass away for another twelve years.
    Second, in contrast to the voracious wild beasts in Daniel 7, the animals
     in Daniel 8 are domestic sanctuary animals. The priests offered a ram
     in the daily sanctuary service and they sacrificed a he goat in the yearly
     service. This strongly hints that the central theme of Daniel 8 is the
     daily (which the little horn took away) and the yearly (when the
     heavenly judgment rectifies the verdicts of earthly courts) services of the
     sanctuary.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 230 of 379
    Third, there is only one symbol in Daniel 8 for both pagan and papal
     Rome, a little horn. The horn first spreads out horizontally to the east,
     the south and the glorious land and then morphs and extends
     vertically to heaven. In similar fashion to the fourth beast of Daniel 7, the
     dragon first extends politically and geographically and then, as with the
     little horn of Daniel 7, it morphs into a religious system.
      The introduction of another beast into Daniel 8 to represent the
      difference between pagan and papal Rome would have spoiled the
      symmetry of the chapter that emphasizes the two domestic beasts of
      the sanctuary service.
    Fourth, while the chain of prophetic events in Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 ends
     with the setting up of Christ’s everlasting kingdom, there is no reference
     in Daniel 8 to this final event. Gabriel interpreted the entire chapter
     except the 2300 days. Daniel got sick before Gabriel was able to finish his
     explanation of the entire vision (Daniel 8:26, 27). This is the reason why
     Gabriel came back in Daniel 9-12 to explain the things that had
     remained unexplained in chapter 8.
Daniel 9:
As noted before, Daniel 8 mentions the 2300-day prophecy but does not
provide a starting point. In chapter 9, however, the crucial starting point for
the 2300 days is given. The seventy weeks constitute the first 490 years of the
2300-day prophecy and those years begin during the kingdom of Persia in the
year 457 BC. This is the real reason why Daniel 8 does not mention the kingdom
of Babylon. The 2300 days begin during the reign of Persia and not during the
reign of Babylon.
Daniel 10:
In order for the prophecy of the 2300 days to be fulfilled (especially the 70
weeks), it was necessary for the kings of Persia to give certain decrees for
Israel to go back to their land to rebuild their temple, city, walls and to restore
a functioning Hebrew theocracy.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 231 of 379
Satan (the prince of Persia) knew this and therefore he worked on the minds
of the Persian kings to discourage them from allowing Israel to return to their
land to rebuild the temple, the city, and the walls and to reestablish a working
theocracy. If Israel did not return, the fulfillment of the prophecy of the 2300
days could not begin and God’s plan would be frustrated. However, in the end,
Michael came to help Gabriel and the prophecy of the 2300 days began right
on schedule. Ellen White explains:
“While Satan was striving to influence the highest powers in the kingdom of
Medo-Persia to show disfavor to God's people, angels worked in behalf of the
exiles. The controversy was one in which all heaven was interested. Through the
prophet Daniel, we are given a glimpse of this mighty struggle between the forces
of good and the forces of evil. For three weeks Gabriel wrestled with the powers of
darkness, seeking to counteract the influences at work on the mind of Cyrus;
and before the contest closed, Christ Himself came to Gabriel's aid.” PK, pp. 571,
572
Daniel 11:1-12:3
In chapter 11, Gabriel will complete the explanation that he suspended in
Daniel 8. It is important to underline that there is no new vision in this chapter,
only an explanation. This indicates that Daniel 11 is the explanation of the
vision of Daniel 8 because there is no other vision between chapter 8 and
chapter 11. Gabriel will begin the explanation of the vision of Daniel 8 at the
same starting point:
    As in Daniel 8, the explanation of Daniel 11 begins during the kingdom of
     Persia rather than Babylon (Daniel 11:2).
    The explanation continues with Greece.
    Alexander the Great, the first king of Greece.
    Then the four divisions of Alexander’s empire.
    The chapter then describes the dominion of pagan Rome.
    Papal Rome during the 1260 years is next.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 232 of 379
    The deadly wound is then referred to in Daniel 11:40A (the king of the
     south attacks the king of the north at the time of the end. The time of the
     end begins, as we shall see, in 1798 AD).
    The vision then takes us beyond the 1260 years of papal oppression to
     the final persecution against God’s people when the king of the North’s
     wound is healed (11:40-45).
    When the king of the north goes out to destroy and annihilate God’s
     people and sets up in a strategic point to deliver a final death blow,
     Michael stands up (Daniel 12:1) to defend His people. As we shall see,
     the standing up of Michael refers to the close of human probation.
    The vision of Daniel 8 only explained the prophetic chain from the
     kingdom of Persia (457 BC) to the beginning of the judgment at the end
     of the 2300 days (1844 AD). The explanation of Daniel 11 begins at the
     same starting point as Daniel 8 but takes us beyond the beginning of the
     judgment at the conclusion of the 2300 days, to the close of the
     investigative judgment when Michael stand up.
    After Michael stands up, God’s people will go through the worst time of
     trouble in history (Daniel 12:1).
    At the end of the time of trouble, God will deliver His people from the
     wrath of the king of the north, that is, all whose names were retained in
     the book when their case came up in the investigative judgment (Daniel
     12:1).
    Then the special resurrection takes place (Daniel 12:2).
    God’s people shine as stars in the everlasting kingdom (Daniel 12:2, 3).
    Thus, Daniel 11:1-12:3 takes us full circle from the kingdom of Persia
     in 457 BC to the time when Christ sets up His everlasting kingdom.
Daniel 12:4
Immediately after Gabriel finishes his explanation of the vision of Daniel 8, he
tells Daniel to close the book and seal it until the time of the end.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 233 of 379
Daniel 12:5-13: We must understand this section of Daniel not as the
beginning of a new vision, but rather as the epilogue of the book. These verses
provide a summary and review of the two time prophecies of Daniel 7-11 (the
3.5 times and the 2300 days).
Reason #5:
Daniel 12:4 tells us that the prophet sealed the little book about the 2300 days
and the judgment until the time of the end. At the time of the end, therefore, we
would expect the opening of the book. Is there any reference in Scripture to
the opening of the book in the time of the end? There most certainly is!
Revelation 10 is a clear echo of the unsealing and opening of the book that
Daniel sealed until the time of the end. There is only one book in the entire Bible
that was sealed at one point, to be opened at the time of the end, the book of
Daniel 12:4.
It is important to remember that the angel from heaven opened the little book
of Revelation 10 during the period of the sixth trumpet at the very end of
history immediately before Jesus takes over the kingdom at the time of the
seventh trumpet (Revelation 11:15-18).
We shall find in our next study that no chapter in the Bible explains more clearly
the origin, message, mission and destiny of God’s end-time remnant people
than Revelation 10. It is not coincidental that the central message of the
Millerites who preached after 1798 came from Daniel 8:14 and Revelation
14:6, 7 where we find a description of the hour of God’s judgment.
As we shall see in our next study, the eating of the little book in Revelation 10
clearly describes the judgment hour preaching of the Millerite movement and
its subsequent disappointment. After the disappointment, the Angel from
heaven commanded John to prophesy again and to measure the temple. In
other words, after the disappointment, God commanded His people to present
another message from the book of Daniel and that message had to do with the
measuring of the heavenly temple, another way of describing the investigative
judgment.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 234 of 379
Concerning the unsealing of the little book, Ellen White wrote:
“It was the Lion of the tribe of Judah who unsealed the book and gave to John
the revelation of what should be in these last days. Daniel stood in his lot to
bear his testimony, which was sealed until the time of the end, when the first
angel's message should be proclaimed to our world. These matters are of infinite
importance in these last days, but while "many shall be purified, and made white,
and tried," "the wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall
understand." . . . The book of Daniel is unsealed in the revelation to John, and
carries us forward to the last scenes of this earth's history.” Manuscript Releases,
volume 18, p. 15.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 235 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 236 of 379
       “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
          A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                       BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


  CHAPTER 10: THE MIGHTY ANGEL FROM
                HEAVEN




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 237 of 379
Introduction

There is no passage in Scripture that describes more accurately the origin,
identity, message, mission and destiny of the Seventh-day Adventist Church
than Revelation 10. The three main philosophical questions are relevant
when we speak about the origin of our beloved Church:
    Where do we come from?
    Why are we here?
    What is our destiny?
If we do not know our roots, we will not realize the immense privilege of
belonging to the Seventh-day Adventist Church, and the awesome
responsibility of proclaiming our message and fulfilling our mission. We will
feel no particular pride in belonging to, not just any church, but to the remnant
church!
These days some of the intelligentsia (the highly educated) of our church are
embarrassed about the origin of our church. They have concluded that the
pioneers were a group of uneducated individuals who had no higher
education degrees and therefore were highly deficient in their theology. As the
leaders of the Jewish Sanhedrin perceived Peter and John, they perceive that
the pioneers were ‘uneducated and untrained’ (see Acts 4:13). Some liberal
publications such as Spectrum and Adventist Today would just as soon erase
from our history the sanctuary, 1844, and the Great Disappointment. They
would like the Seventh-day Adventist Church to be just like all other churches,
perhaps with a little sprinkling of distinctive doctrines such as the Sabbath.
This is a great tragedy, because if we do not know the prophecies that have
made us the people that we are, we will simply conclude that our Church is
one among many.
In this study of Revelation 10, we will allow the Bible to explain itself by
comparing one text with another. The Holy Spirit supervised the composition
of the Scriptures and placed in them everything that we need to explain their



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 238 of 379
meaning. We will find that the Holy Spirit placed in many different books of
the Bible all the necessary elements to explain the prophecy of Revelation 10.
One point I would like to underline as we begin this study. We will see that
Revelation 10 describes the origins of the great Advent Movement in the
minutest detail, and as we move along I will use the Spirit of Prophecy to
support many details in our interpretation.

Why Use Ellen White?

On a certain occasion when I was lecturing on this chapter, someone came to
me with the utmost sincerity asked:
“If I wished to give this study on Revelation 10 to one who is not a member of the
Seventh-day Adventist Church, could I do it by simply using the Bible and not the
Spirit of Prophecy?”
The implication of the question was that a non-Adventist would never accept
the authority of the Spirit of Prophecy and therefore we should use the Bible
alone in explaining Revelation 10. In my answer, I made two very important
points:
First, we should never give a non-Adventist a study on Revelation 10 until the
very end of a series of Bible studies in preparation for baptism. After the
candidate has fully studied all of the doctrines of the church, including the
sanctuary, the 70 weeks, the 2300-day prophecy, and the role of the Spirit
of Prophecy, then we can unlock the meaning of Revelation 10.
Second, it is not fair to insist that we must present this study from the Bible
alone. Let me explain what I mean by giving a couple of examples.
How can we explain the little horn/beast prophecies of Daniel 7 and
Revelation 13 to Roman Catholics by using the Bible alone? The simple
answer is that we cannot. Daniel and John give us many characteristics of the
little horn/beast. They wrote that the little horn/beast blasphemed God, His
tabernacle and those who dwell in heaven, persecuted the saints, thought that
it could change the law and ruled for 1260 years. How can we prove that


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 239 of 379
these characteristics apply to the papacy without going outside the Bible to
history? The answer is that we cannot. The Bible gives us the characteristics
and then we must find their fulfillment in history outside the canon.
We could say the same about the earth beast in Revelation 13:11-18. All the
characteristics of this beast indicate that it represents the United States.
However, nowhere in the Bible can we find the name ‘United States’. Once
again, the Bible provides the characteristics and then we must find in history
the power to which the characteristics apply.
We can say the same about the prophecy of Revelation 10. In this chapter, we
find the characteristics that point to the rise of the remnant church but we
must find the fulfillment of these characteristics in history. Would it not be
absurd to say that we must look for the fulfillment of Bible prophecies in
history except for Revelation 10?
We must underline that the writings of Ellen White and the pioneers are of
particular authority when it comes to the fulfillment of Revelation 10 because
they personally participated in its fulfillment—they were eyewitnesses!
Ellen White did not write simply as historian looking back at what happened.
She was there and actually participated in the events that the chapter
describes. One of the great deficiencies of SDA evangelism today is that we
are not teaching our baptismal candidates our denominational history and
therefore they are not aware of the rich historical heritage of the church that
they are joining.

The Passage

Traditionally, Seventh-day Adventist interpreters have correctly seen in the
trumpets a chronological sequence of events in Christian history. The events of
Revelation 10 clearly transpire at the time of the end because they occur during
the period of the sixth trumpet He is the passage with explanatory notes in
brackets:
“I saw still another mighty angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a
cloud. And a rainbow was on his head; his face was like the sun, and his feet like

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 240 of 379
pillars of fire. 2 He had a little book open [having been opened] in his hand.
And he set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land, 3 and cried with
a loud voice, as when a lion roars. When he cried out, seven thunders uttered
their voices. 4 Now when the seven thunders uttered their voices, I was about to
write; but I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, "Seal up the things which
the seven thunders uttered, and do not write them." 5 The angel whom I saw
standing on the sea and on the land raised up his hand to heaven 6 and swore by
Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it,
the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it [a
clear reference to the fourth commandment], that there should be delay no
longer [better: time no longer], 7 but in the days of the sounding of the seventh
angel, when he is about to sound, the mystery of God would be finished, as He
declared to His servants the prophets. 8 Then the voice which I heard from
heaven spoke to me again [after telling him not to write what the seven
thunders uttered] and said, "Go, take the little book which is open in the hand of
the angel who stands on the sea and on the earth." 9 So I went to the angel and
said to him, "Give me the little book." And he said to me: "Take and eat it; and it
will make your stomach bitter, but it will be as sweet as honey in your mouth."
10 Then I took the little book out of the angel's hand and ate it, and it was as sweet

as honey in my mouth. But when I had eaten it, my stomach became bitter. 11 And
he said to me [the same angel], "You must prophesy again about many peoples,
nations, tongues, and kings." Then I was given a reed like a measuring rod. And
the angel [the same angel] stood, saying: "Rise and measure the temple of God,
the altar, and those who worship there.”

Summary of the Little Book Episode

Everything in the chapter revolves around the mighty angel:
    The Angel descended from heaven to the earth (verse 1).
    The Angel’s physical characteristics were then described (verse 1).
    As the Angel descends from heaven, he has in his right hand an open
     scroll. This means that he had already opened it before he descended to
     the earth (verse 2).

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 241 of 379
   The Angel then placed one foot on dry land and the other on the sea
    (verse 2).
   The Angel then spoke a message like the roar of a lion that echoed like
    seven thunders (verses 3-4).
   John understood the message of the thunders, but the Angel instructed
    him to seal the message that the thunders uttered and not to write it
    down.
   The Angel then raised his right hand to heaven (the book was in his left
    hand) and swore an oath in the name of the eternal Creator God, that
    time would be no longer (verses 5-7).
   The angel then gave the book to John with instructions to eat it and told
    him it would be bitter in his stomach and sweet as honey in his mouth
    (verses 8-9).
   John then ate the book and it was sweet in his mouth (verse 10).
   The aftermath of eating the book was indigestion (verse 10).
   The same Angel then instructed John to prophesy again from the little
    book to “many peoples, nations, tongues, and kings.” (verse 11).
   The same Angel then commanded John to measure the temple, the altar
    and those who worship therein (11:1).
   The ‘mystery of God’ ends when the seventh angel was about to blow
    his trumpet (10:7).
   When the seventh trumpet blows, Jesus takes over the kingdoms of the
    world (Revelation 11:15-17).

The Messenger

Jesus Christ Himself gave the message of Revelation 10 so it must be
extremely important:
     John did not see an ordinary angel; He saw a mighty Angel.
     The Angel’s face shone like the noonday sun (Rev. 1:16; Matthew 17:3).
     A cloud surrounded the Angel that represents the angelic hosts.
     The Angel’s legs and feet were like pillars of fire (see Revelation 1:15).
     When the Angel spoke, he roared like a lion (see Revelation 5:5).

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 242 of 379
    The Angel had a rainbow over His head representing the union of Christ’s
     mercy and justice:
      “As the bow in the cloud results from the union of sunshine and shower, so
      the bow above God's throne represents the union of His mercy and His
      justice. To the sinful but repentant soul God says: Live thou; "I have found
      a ransom." Job 33:24. Education, p. 115
Ellen White explained that the mighty Angel was none other than Jesus:
    “The mighty angel who instructed John was no less a personage than Jesus
     Christ.” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 971
    “The instruction to be communicated to John was so important that Christ
     came from heaven to give it to His servant, telling him to send it to the
     churches.” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, pp.
     953, 954

The Identity of the Little Book

There is only one book in the Bible that was sealed and later opened at the
time of the end:
Daniel 12:4: Daniel shut up the book and sealed it around the year 538 BC
when he received the explanation of the vision of Daniel 8, the first year of
Darius (Daniel 11:1):
"But you, Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book until the time of the end;
many [eyes] shall run to and fro, and knowledge [of the book] shall increase."
Revelation 10:1
“I saw still another mighty angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a
cloud and a rainbow was on his head; his face was like the sun, and his feet like
pillars of fire. He had a little book open [having been opened] in his hand.”
The tense of the verb ‘open’ indicates that the angel unsealed and opened the
little closed book just before he descended from heaven. The verb ‘open’
literally reads, ‘the book, the one having been opened.’

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 243 of 379
Literally, the Greek verb that describes the opening of the book is a passive
perfect tense participle. The perfect tense describes an event that began in
the past and endures or continues in the present. This means that the Angel
opened the book in heaven at the time of the end (1798) and then descended
from heaven with the open book. In other words, the little book (Daniel 12:4)
remained closed and sealed until the time of the end at which time the seal
was removed and the book was opened so that it could be understood and
proclaimed.
As we studied previously, the little book consisted of Daniel 8:1-12:4,
particularly the portion relating to the 2300 days and the beginning of the
heavenly judgment. The opening of the little book took place when the
Millerites and others preached the first angel’s message beginning in 1798.
   1) Daniel 8:14 gives us the timing for the beginning of the judgment—at
      the end of the 2300 days/years.
   2) Daniel 7 provides us with a description of the heavenly event that took
      place at the conclusion of the 2300 days/years.
   3) Revelation 10 and 14:6, 7 provide us with the earthly announcement of
      the heavenly event.
“It was the Lion of the tribe of Judah who unsealed the book and gave to John
the revelation of what should be in these last days. Daniel stood in his lot to
bear his testimony [not in person but through his book], which was sealed
until the time of the end, when the first angel's message should be
proclaimed [the message of the first angel removes the seal from the book,
particularly the portion that had to do with the timing of the judgment
hour] to our world. These matters are of infinite importance in these last days,
but while "many shall be purified, and made white, and tried," "the wicked shall
do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand." How true this is. Sin is the
transgression of the law of God, and those in the denominational churches who
will not accept the light in regard to the law of God will not understand the
proclamation of the first, second, and third angel's messages. The book of Daniel



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 244 of 379
is unsealed in the revelation to John, and carries us forward to the last scenes
of this earth's history.” Manuscript Releases, volume 18, p. 15
“The message of salvation has been preached in all ages; but this message [the
first angel’s message concerning the judgment hour] is a part of the gospel
which could be proclaimed only in the last days, for only then would it be true
that the hour of judgment had come. The prophecies present a succession of
events [for example, the prophetic chain of Daniel 7] leading down to the
opening of the judgment. This is especially true of the book of Daniel. But that
part of his prophecy which related to the last days, Daniel was bidden to close
up and seal "to the time of the end." Not till we reach this time could a message
concerning the judgment be proclaimed, based on the fulfillment of these
prophecies. But at the time of the end, says the prophet, "many shall run to and
fro, and knowledge shall be increased." Daniel 12:4. The Great Controversy, p. 356
“The words of the angel to Daniel relating to the last days were to be understood
in the time of the end. At that time [see Amos 8:11, 12], "many shall run to and
fro, and knowledge shall be increased." "The wicked shall do wickedly: and none
of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand." Daniel 12:4, 10.
“The unsealing of the little book was the message in relation to time [the 2300-
day prophecy].” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 971

When did the Angel Open the Book?

When did the Angel remove the seal from the little book? According to
Revelation 10, the Angel removed the seal from the book so that the people
could study and proclaim it at the end time, just before the seventh angel
blows his trumpet and the mystery of God is finished. Concerning the message
of judgment that the first angel proclaimed, Ellen White wrote:
“No such message has ever been given in past ages. Paul, as we have seen, did not
preach it; he pointed his brethren into the then far-distant future for the coming
of the Lord. The Reformers did not proclaim it. Martin Luther placed the
judgment about three hundred years in the future from his day. But since 1798
[the time of the end begins in 1798 and that is the date when the little book

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 245 of 379
was unsealed] the book of Daniel has been unsealed, knowledge [same word
as Daniel 12:4] of the prophecies [not scientific knowledge] has increased,
and many have proclaimed the solemn message of the judgment near.” The
Great Controversy, p. 356
It is a historical fact that after 1798 there was an awakened interest in the
study of the prophecies of Daniel and Revelation. Preachers everywhere,
including children, preached that the hour of God’s judgment had come. Among
the notables were Lacunza, Wolff, Bengel, Gaussen, Miller, Litch, and Fitch.

Global Extension

The Angel presents a message from the book that is global in extension—to
every nation, kindred, tongue and people (Revelation 14:6). The global reach of
the message is expressed in symbolic language at the beginning of the
chapter (‘feet on the sea and on the land’) and in literal language at the end (‘to
every nation, tongue and kings’)
“The message of Revelation 14, proclaiming that the hour of God's judgment is
come, is given in the time of the end; and the angel of Revelation 10 is represented
as having one foot on the sea and one foot on the land, showing that the
message will be carried to distant lands, the ocean will be crossed, and the
islands of the sea will hear the proclamation of the last message of warning to
our world.” 2SM, pp. 107, 108
In order for the message from the book to go to the entire world there must be
a worldwide church to proclaim it. Besides being a global, the Seventh-day
Adventist Church is the only church in the world that believes that its mission
is to proclaim the three angels’ message.
“The angel's position, with one foot on the sea, the other on the land, signifies the
wide extent of the proclamation of the message. It will cross the broad waters
and be proclaimed in other countries, even to all the world.” The Seventh-day
Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 971




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 246 of 379
The expression ‘sea and land’ could also mean that the message will be
proclaimed to the nations of the ‘old world’ (the beast from the sea: Europe)
and in the ‘new world’ (the beast from the earth: North America).
The act of planting the feet indicates that the Angel is claiming global
ownership of the world. When the seventh trumpet sounds, the claim will
become an empirical reality when the kingdoms of the world become the
kingdoms of God and the Lamb (Revelation 11:15-17):
Deuteronomy 11:24
“Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours: from the
wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the River Euphrates, even to the Western
Sea, shall be your territory.”

The Seven Thunders

John 12:28, 29: The sound of the seven thunders imparted an intelligible
message from God to John. That is to say, the thunders were not simply noise
but rather contained a message from God. In fact, the thunders were the echo
of God’s voice.
There is another text from Scripture that helps us understand how thunder
can carry an intelligible message. Just before His passion, Jesus pleaded with
His Father to glorify His name:
"Now My soul is troubled, and what shall I say? ‘Father, save Me from this hour'?
But for this purpose I came to this hour. 28 Father, glorify Your name." Then a
voice came from heaven, saying, "I have both glorified it and will glorify it
again." 29 Therefore the people who stood by and heard it said that it had
thundered. Others said, "An angel has spoken to Him."
We must focus on several facts as we study the meaning of the seven thunders:
    The Angel, whose voice sounded like seven thunders, gave the message
     to John and he understood their message.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 247 of 379
    The Angel commanded John to seal the message so that the readers
     could not understand it.
    The seven thunders bear a relationship with events that transpired
     between 1798 and 1844 because they imparted their message after the
     book was opened and the Angel descended from heaven in 1798 and
     before the Angel swore His oath that time would be no longer in 1844.
Ellen White wrote about the timing for the fulfillment of the seven thunders:
“The special light given to John which was expressed in the seven thunders was a
delineation of events which would transpire under the first and second angels'
messages. It was not best for the people to know these things, for their faith
must necessarily be tested.” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary,
volume 7, p. 971
Three facts are clear in this statement:
    The seven thunders described a delineation of events that would occur
     between 1842 and 1844 just before the mighty Angel swore His oath.
    The people who lived during this period were not supposed to know
     these events beforehand.
    The reason they were not supposed to know is that their faith needed to
     be tested.
The message of the seven thunders told John that those who proclaimed the
judgment hour message would be disappointed when Jesus failed to come in
1843 or the spring of 1844. As is well known by informed Adventists, Miller
originally believed that Jesus would come ‘about the year 1843.’ Unfortunately,
Miller and his associates failed to reckon that there was no year zero between
1 BC and 1 AD and therefore they were disappointed when Jesus did not come.
Ellen White wrote about this disappointment:
“I saw the people of God joyful in expectation [in 1843], looking for their Lord.
But God designed to prove them. His hand covered a mistake in the reckoning
of the prophetic periods [this is the same as the sealing of the seven thunders.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 248 of 379
If John had written down what the thunders said, the people would not have
been disappointed]. Those who were looking for their Lord did not discover this
mistake [they had not reckoned that there was no year zero], and the most
learned men who opposed the time also failed to see it. God designed that His
people should meet with a disappointment. The time passed, and those who had
looked with joyful expectation for their Savior were sad and disheartened, while
those who had not loved the appearing of Jesus, but embraced the message
through fear, were pleased that He did not come at the time of expectation. Their
profession had not affected the heart and purified the life. The passing of the time
was well calculated to reveal such hearts. They were the first to turn and ridicule
the sorrowful, disappointed ones who really loved the appearing of their Savior. I
saw the wisdom of God in proving His people and giving them a searching test
to discover those who would shrink and turn back in the hour of trial.” EW, p. 235,
236
“Those faithful, disappointed ones, who could not understand why their Lord did
not come, were not left in darkness. Again they were led to their Bibles to search
the prophetic periods. The hand of the Lord was removed from the figures,
and the mistake was explained. They saw that the prophetic periods reached to
1844, and that the same evidence which they had presented to show that the
prophetic periods closed in 1843, proved that they would terminate in 1844.
Light from the Word of God shone upon their position, and they discovered a
tarrying time--"Though it [the vision] tarry, wait for it." In their love for Christ's
immediate coming, they had overlooked the tarrying of the vision, which was
calculated to manifest the true waiting ones. Again they had a point of time.
Yet I saw that many of them could not rise above their severe disappointment to
possess that degree of zeal and energy which had marked their faith in 1843.”
EW, p. 236
Some zealous but misguided Adventists who are predicting that the seven
thunders are still in the future, have misinterpreted a statement that Ellen
White wrote in 1900 where she seems to leave the impression that the seven
thunders were still in the future in that year. Here is the quotation:



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 249 of 379
“After these seven thunders uttered their voices, the injunction comes to John as
to Daniel in regard to the little book: "Seal up those things which the seven
thunders uttered." These [the thunders] relate to future events [from the time
of John] which will be disclosed [notice the word ‘disclosed’] in their order.
Daniel shall stand in his lot at the end of the days. John sees the little book
unsealed. Then Daniel's prophecies have their proper place in the first, second,
and third angels' messages to be given to the world. The unsealing of the little
book was the message in relation to time [that is to say, when the Millerites
proclaimed that the hour of God’s judgment had come, the seal was
removed from Daniel 8:14 because now the time factor could be
understood].” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 971
The critical question is this: Was the message of the seven thunders future from
the time that Ellen White in 1900 or were they future from the time of John.
A careful reading of the quotation clearly reveals that the seven thunders
uttered a message that was future from the time of Daniel and John.

The Angel’s Oath

After the Angel [1] descended from heaven with the open book (1798), and [2]
the seven thunders had uttered their message (1842-spring of 1844), [3] he
raised His right hand to heaven and swore an oath in the name of the eternal
God, the Creator that time would be no longer (Autumn of 1844).
What did the Angel mean by ‘time will be no longer’? Was he referring to the end
of probationary time or the end of the world? Not at all! Ellen White
explained:
“This time, which the angel declares with a solemn oath, is not the end of this
world's history, neither of probationary time, but of prophetic time, which
should precede the advent of our Lord. That is, the people will not have another
message upon definite time. After this period of time, reaching from 1842 to
1844, there can be no definite tracing of the prophetic time. The longest
reckoning reaches to the autumn of 1844.” The Seventh-Day Adventist Bible
Commentary, volume 7, p. 971


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 250 of 379
In another place, Ellen White wrote:
“And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his
hand to heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created
heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein
are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no
longer" (Revelation 10:5, 6). This message announces the end of the prophetic
periods. The disappointment of those who expected to see our Lord in 1844 was
indeed bitter to those who had so ardently looked for His appearing. It was in the
Lord's order that this disappointment should come, and that hearts should be
revealed.” Selected Messages, volume 2, p. 108
The ‘time’ referred to by the Angel cannot mean the close of probation or the
end of human history for at least two reasons:
    The announcement that time would be no longer was made by the Angel
     during the period of the sixth trumpet, and probation does not close
     until the mystery of God is finished when the seventh trumpet is about
     to blow. Further, Jesus does not come to take over his kingdom until the
     seventh trumpet actually does blow (Revelation 11:15-19).
    After the Angel announced that “time will be no longer,” He instructed to
     prophesy again and measure the temple (Revelation 10:11). What good
     would it do to prophesy again and measure the temple if probation had
     closed or the world had ended?
Unfortunately, all modern versions of the Bible translate the expression ‘time
will be no longer’ as ‘there should no longer be any delay’. Even our very own
Andrews University Study Bible translates it in this fashion. However, this
translation is wrong. It totally severs the time referred to in Revelation 10:6
from the time prophecy of the 2300 days in little book of Daniel 12:4.
The word chronos appears in three other places in the book of Revelation and
none of the modern versions translates the word with ‘delay’. (2:21; 6:11; 20:3).
Even more telling is the fact that the word is translated “time” in over 30 other
places in the New Testament and it is not translated ‘delay’ even once. The New


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 251 of 379
Testament had a way of expressing a delay and that is the word chronizo. This
word appears in Matthew 24:48 where the Lord’s servant says: “my master is
delayed.”
It is obvious the Angel’s declaration that ‘time will be no longer’ cannot have
been made by the angel before the 42 months (Revelation 11:2; 13:5), 1260
days (Revelation 11:3; 12:6), 3.5 times (Revelation 12:14; Daniel 7:25), 3.5
days (Revelation 11:9, 11) and 2300 days (Daniel 8:14) had reached their
conclusion.

Adventists not Time Setters

Contrary to the accusations of the enemies of Adventism within and without,
the Seventh-day Adventist Church has never set a date for any prophetic event.
In 1844, the Adventist church did not even exist! It is true that later, the
Seventh-day Adventist Church did embrace October 22, 1844 as the date
when Jesus entered the most holy place to begin the work of investigative
judgment. However, leading up to 1844, scholars of many different
denominations came up with the date. Ellen White, on multiple occasions
warned Adventists not to set dates for any prophetic event after 1844:
“The Lord has shown me that the message of the third angel must go, and be
proclaimed to the scattered children of the Lord, and that it should not be hung
on time; for time never will be a test again. I saw that some were getting a false
excitement arising from preaching time; that the third angel's message was
stronger than time can be. I saw that this message can stand on its own
foundation, and that it needs not time to strengthen it, and that it will go in
mighty power, and do its work, and will be cut short in righteousness.” The Review
and Herald, July 21, 1851
“There will always be false and fanatical movements made by persons in the
church who claim to be led of God --those who will run before they are sent, and
will give day and date for the occurrence of unfulfilled prophecy. The enemy is
pleased to have them do this, for their successive failures and leading into false



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 252 of 379
lines cause confusion and unbelief.” Letter 28, 1897. Selected Messages, volume
2, p. 84

The Oath in Daniel and Revelation

Both Daniel and Revelation refer to the Angel’s oath (Daniel 12:7;
Revelation10:6) and both books begin the oath by invoking the name of the
everlasting God. In Daniel 12:7 the Angel lifts up both hands to heaven but in
Revelation the Angel raises only his right hand. The reason for the difference
is simple: In Daniel 12 the Angel did not yet have in his hand the book that was
sealed.
Significantly, the Angel in the book of Daniel invokes the name of the eternal
God when He swears the oath. However, the book of Revelation adds that the
eternal God was the one ‘who created heaven and the things that are in it, the
earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it’,
language clearly reminiscent of the fourth commandment of God’s holy law.
The description of God as the eternal Creator links the little book of Revelation
10 with the first angel’s message of Revelation 14. There are three similarities
between Revelation 10 and the first angel’s message:
    Both underline that the message must be global—to every nation,
     kindred, tongue and people.
    Both announce that the time for the judgment has arrived.
    Both focus attention on the Creator.
The Angel’s command for John to prophesy again from the little book bears a
direct relationship with the first angel’s message where God commands the
world to worship the Creator because the hour of God’s judgment has come.
Thus, the final remnant people of God will admonish the world to worship the
Creator God in the context of the judgment. In addition, there is something
more: In his oath, the Angel strongly paraphrases the language of the fourth
commandment where God commands His people to keep the Sabbath as the
sign of creation (Exodus 20:8-11; Genesis 2:2, 3).



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 253 of 379
The Mystery of God

Revelation 10:7
“. . . but [however] in the days of the sounding of the seventh angel, when he is
about to sound, the mystery of God would be finished, as He declared to His
servants the prophets.”
Verse 7 begins with a strong adversative ‘but’. That is to say, the word ‘but’
marks a strong break in time between the moment when the Angel announces
that time will be no longer during the sixth trumpet and the moment when the
seventh trumpet is about to begin to sound.
What the text indicates is that the declaration that ‘time will be no longer’ is
made during the period of the sixth trumpet but the mystery of God will not
be finished until de seventh trumpet is about to sound. This clearly shows that
the end of the prophetic periods occurs during the sixth, and before seventh
trumpets.

What is the Mystery of God?

The mystery of God is the gospel of salvation that He kept secret in His eternal
councils in the past, but has now revealed by the preaching of the gospel:
Romans 16:25-27
“Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the
preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept secret
since the world began 26 but now made manifest, and by the prophetic
Scriptures made known to all nations, according to the commandment of the
everlasting God, for obedience to the faith—27 to God, alone wise, be glory through
Jesus Christ forever. Amen.”
Ellen White makes this magnificent statement about the meaning of the
expression ‘mystery of God’:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 254 of 379
“The incarnation of Christ is a mystery. The union of divinity with humanity is a
mystery indeed, hidden with God, "even the mystery which hath been hid from
ages." It was kept in eternal silence by Jehovah, and was first revealed in Eden,
by the prophecy that the Seed of the woman should bruise the serpent's head, and
that he should bruise his heel. To present to the world this mystery that God kept
in silence for eternal ages before the world was created, before man was created,
was the part that Christ was to act in the work he entered upon when he came to
this earth. And this wonderful mystery, the incarnation of Christ and the
atonement that he made, must be declared to every son and daughter of
Adam, whether Jew or Gentile.” Signs of the Times, March 25, 1897
The mystery of God (the preaching of the gospel to the world) will end shortly
before the seventh trumpet begins to sound. At that time, Jesus will remove
his priestly robes and clothe Himself with his kingly robe. Daniel 12:1
describes this moment as Michael ‘standing up’. At this time, Jesus will begin to
reign because the judgment has ended and the number of the subjects of His
kingdom is complete (see, Daniel 11:2, 3 where ‘stand up’ means ‘to begin to
reign’). Revelation 15:5-8 describes this moment as well where Christ’s work
of intercession ends in the heavenly naós—the most holy place of the heavenly
sanctuary.
In summary, when the seventh trumpet is about to sound the following events
will transpire:
    Probation will close.
    The mystery of God will be finished.
    The time of trouble will ensue.
    Then the seventh trumpet will sound and Jesus will possess the
     kingdom with his saints (Revelation 11:15-17).
Revelation 15:5-8: Describes the moment when probation closes, the plague
angels come out of the most holy place and no one will be able to enter there
until the seven plagues are finished:
“After these things I looked, and behold, the temple [naós; Revelation 11:19] of
the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. 6 And out of the temple

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 255 of 379
[naós] came the seven angels having the seven plagues, clothed in pure bright
linen, and having their chests girded with golden bands. 7 Then one of the four
living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of
God [probation has closed and now God’s wrath will fall] who lives forever
and ever. 8 The temple [naós] was filled with smoke from the glory of God and
from His power, and no one was able to enter the temple [naós] till the seven
plagues of the seven angels were completed.”
Rev 22:10-12 mentions three consecutive points of time:
    A message can still come forth from the book of Revelation:
      “And he said to me, "Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for
      the time is at hand.”
    The time when all cases have been decided for life or death:
      “He who is unjust, let him be unjust still; he who is filthy, let him be filthy
      still; he who is righteous, let him be righteous still; he who is holy, let him
      be holy still.”
    Jesus comes to reward His people at the second coming:
      "And behold, I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, to give to
      everyone according to his work.”
Daniel 7 presents the same three-step scenario:
       The ancient of days comes to the heavenly naós for the judgment. At
        this time, the door of probation is still open.
       At the conclusion of the judgment when all cases are decided, Jesus
        receives the kingdom from His Father.
       The time comes for Jesus and the saints to possess the kingdom.

Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14, 18, 21, 22, 26, 27
"I watched till thrones were put in place, and the Ancient of Days [in heaven]


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 256 of 379
was seated; His garment was white as snow, and the hair of His head was like pure
wool. His throne was a fiery flame, its wheels a burning fire; 10 A fiery stream
issued and came forth from before Him. A thousand thousands ministered to Him;
ten thousand times ten thousand stood before Him [in heaven], the court was
seated [in heaven], and the books were opened [the investigative judgment
in heaven]. . . 13 "I was watching in the night visions, and behold, One like the Son
of Man, coming with the clouds of heaven! He came to the Ancient of Days [in
heaven], and they [the clouds] brought Him near before Him [before God the
Father in heaven]. 14 Then to Him was given [who gave it to Him?] dominion
and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve
Him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and His
kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed. . . 18 But the saints of the Most
High shall receive the kingdom [when Jesus comes], and possess the
kingdom forever, even forever and ever.' 21 "I was watching; and the same horn
was making war against the saints, and prevailing against them, 22 until the
Ancient of Days came [in heaven], and a judgment [this is the purpose of the
judgment] was made in favor of the saints of the Most High [in heaven before
the second coming], and the time came [when Jesus returns] for the saints to
possess the kingdom. . . 25 He shall speak pompous words against the Most High,
shall persecute the saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and
law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand for a time and times and half a
time. . . 26 'But the court shall be seated [in heaven], and they shall take away
his dominion, to consume and destroy it forever. 27 Then the kingdom and
dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven, shall be
given to the people, the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting
kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him.'”
Summary of the three steps of the judgment in Daniel 7:
   1. The books are opened in heaven to review the cases of all those who
      have claimed the name of Jesus.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 257 of 379
   2. When the examination of every case is finished, probation closes and
      the Father gives Jesus His kingdom—the totality of the saints.
   3. Finally, when Jesus comes, He and his subjects will possess the kingdom.

The Bittersweet Experience

It is clear that the little book experience of verses 8-11 precedes Revelation
10:7 in time. In other words, Revelation 10:7 is a parenthetical statement that
breaks the flow of thought. Someone may wonder why this is so. The reason is
obvious. After John eats the little book and it is sweet in his mouth and bitter in
his stomach, the Angel tells him to prophecy again and to measure the
temple.
If the mystery of God (the preaching of the gospel) had already finished and
probation had closed, there would be no reason to prophesy again about the
contents of the book and to talk about the investigative judgment. Clearly,
verses 8-11 take us back to events that occurred between verses 6 and 7.
The assimilation of the little book by John causes a bittersweet reaction. In the
mouth, the judgment book was sweet but when it reached the belly, it gave him
indigestion. We have already identified the contents of the book as the
prophecy of the 2300 days, especially the time element that marks the
beginning of the judgment. This means that the judgment hour message was
sweet to John, but in the aftermath, it became bitter. Have you ever had the
experience of eating something that is delicious to your palate but then
becomes bitter?
The Bible compares the words of God with the sweetness of honey:
Jeremiah 15:16
“Your words were found, and I ate them, and Your word was to me the joy and
rejoicing of my heart; for I am called by Your name, O LORD God of hosts.”
Psalm 119:103
“How sweet are Your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!”


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 258 of 379
Exodus 16:31: The Manna in the wilderness symbolized the Word of God
(Deuteronomy 8:3, 4):
“And the house of Israel called its name Manna. And it was like white coriander
seed, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey.”

Ellen White explained in what sense the book concerning the judgment
message was sweet:
“The comprehension of truth, the glad reception of the message, is represented
in the eating of the little book. The truth in regard to the time of the advent of
our Lord was a precious message to our souls.” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible
Commentary, volume 7, p. 971 (Manuscript 59, 1900)
Ellen White described the year that led up to October 22, 1844 as ‘the happiest
year of my life.’
The act of eating the scroll not only represents the assimilation and
understanding of the message of the little book but also its impartation. We
find the closest parallel to Revelation 10:8-11 in Ezekiel 3:1-4 where God
instructs the prophet to eat the scroll and then to share the contents of the scroll
with Israel:
“Moreover He said to me, "Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go,
speak to the house of Israel." 2 So I opened my mouth, and He caused me to
eat that scroll. 3 And He said to me, "Son of man, feed your belly, and fill your
stomach with this scroll that I give you." So I ate, and it was in my mouth like
honey in sweetness. 4 Then He said to me: "Son of man, go to the house of Israel
and speak with My words to them.”

The Great Disappointment of 1844

The message of the judgment imparted by the Millerites leading up to October
22, 1844 was indeed sweet. They believed that the judgment meant the
cleansing of the earth by fire and the setting up of Christ’s everlasting
kingdom. They were wrong about the event and were severely disappointed.
Let us look at the reaction of some of the pioneers:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 259 of 379
Hiram Edson:
“. . . we confidently expected to see Jesus Christ and all the holy angels with him;
and that his voice would call up Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all the ancient
worthies, and dear friends which had been torn from us by death, and that our
trials and sufferings, with our earthly pilgrimage would close, and we should be
caught up to meet our coming Lord to be forever with him, to inhabit bright
golden mansions in the golden home city prepared for the redeemed. Our
expectations were raised high, and thus we looked for our coming Lord until the
clock tolled 12, at midnight.
The day had then passed and our disappointment became a certainty. Our fondest
hopes and expectations were blasted, and such a spirit of weeping came over us
as I never experienced before. It seemed that the loss of all earthly friends could
have been no comparison. We wept, and wept, till the day dawn. I mused in my
own heart, saying, My advent experience has been the richest and brightest of all
my Christian experience. If this had proved a failure, what was the rest of my
Christian experience worth? Has the Bible proved a failure? Is there no God, no
heaven, no golden home city, no paradise? Is all this but a cunningly devised fable?
Is there no reality to our fondest hope and expectation of these things? And thus
we had something to grieve and weep over, if all our fond hopes were lost. And as
I said, we wept till the day dawn.” Hiram Edson, manuscript fragment on his "Life
and Experience," no date, pp. 4-5, Ellen G. White Research Center, James White
Library, Andrews University, Berrien Springs, Mich.
Washington Morse
“The passing of the time was a bitter disappointment. True believers had given up
all for Christ, and had shared His presence as never before. The love of Jesus filled
every soul; and with inexpressible desire, they prayed, ‘Come, Lord Jesus, and come
quickly;’ but He did not come. And now, to turn again to the cares, perplexities,
and dangers of life, in full view of jeering and reviling unbelievers who scoffed as
never before, was a terrible trial of faith and patience. When elder Himes visited
Waterbury, Vermont, a short time after the passing of the time, and stated that
the brethren should prepare for another cold winter, my feelings were almost

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 260 of 379
incontrollable. I left the place of meeting and wept like a child.” Washington
Morse, “Remembrance of Former Days,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald,
May 7, 1901
William Miller
“It passed, and the next day it seemed as though all the demons from the
bottomless pit were let loose upon us. The same ones and many more who were
crying for mercy two days before, were not mixed with the rabble and mocking,
scoffing, and threatening in a most blasphemous manner.” Words of William
Miller in a letter to I. O. Orr, M. D. dated December 13, 1844

The Triumphal Entry

The experience of the Millerites was very similar to what happened to the
disciples toward the end of Christ’s ministry on earth. Every time that Jesus
moves into a new phase of His work, his people are one-step behind and go
through a disappointment.
   The followers of Jesus had never had a sweeter experience than when
    Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey and the multitudes proclaimed
    Him king!
   Jesus was fulfilling the specific time prophecy of the Seventy Weeks, the
    first part of the 2300-day prophecy.
   The disciples were sure that Jesus was going to establish His kingdom
    on earth but they were mistaken about the event.
   The timing of the event was correct but their understanding of the event
    was wrong.
   The followers of Jesus were bitterly disappointed in their expectations
    when Jesus suffered crucifixion.
   However, after the disappointment, Jesus caught up to two followers
    (we know the name of one of them Cleophas) who were walking on a
    country road to Emmaus and clarified the prophecies that they had
    misunderstood.
   Jesus then entered the holy place in heaven to begin His ministry there.


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 261 of 379
   The majority of those who professed to follow Jesus did not follow Him
    into the holy place and His work there could not benefit them.
   Jesus then gave the apostles the command and power to preach again
    but with the added understanding of what Jesus was doing (Matthew
    28:18-20).
   The small remnant of believers, who remained faithful in spite of the
    disappointment, became the nucleus of the Christian Church. Thus, the
    Christian Church began with a great disappointment.

The Triumphal Entry and the Millerites

   The Millerites also had a sweet experience when they were expecting
    Jesus to come to the earth on October 22, 1844.
   Jesus was fulfilling a specific time prophecy on October 22, 1844—the
    prophecy of the 2300 days that was the larger portion of the 70-week
    prophecy.
   The Millerites were sure that Jesus was going to establish His kingdom
    on earth on that date. They were right about the time but wrong about
    the event.
   When Jesus failed to meet their expectations, the sweet experience
    changed into bitterness.
   The day after the disappointment, two Millerites were walking across a
    field. One of them, Hiram Edson (we do not know the name of the other)
    had a momentary flash where he saw that instead of Jesus coming to the
    earth on October 22, 1844, he entered for the first time into the most
    holy place to measure the temple, the altar and those who worshiped
    there.
   The majority of those who had believed that Jesus would come on
    October 22 forsook the movement and said that they had been
    deceived.
   The faithful remnant then restudied the prophecies that they had
    misinterpreted and realized that Jesus had begun a new work in the most
    holy place.


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 262 of 379
    The faithful remnant received the command to prophesy again but with
     the added understanding of what Jesus was doing. That message is in
     Revelation 14:6-12.
    The small remnant of believers, who remained faithful in spite of the
     disappointment, became the nucleus of the Seventh-day Adventist
     Church. Thus, the remnant church began with a great disappointment
     just like the Christian Church.

Prophesying Again

There is something strange about the Angel’s order for John to eat the book.
He first told John that the book would be bitter in the stomach and sweet in
the mouth. Why does the Angel reverse the natural order in verse 9? In order
to understand we must look at the chiastic structure of verses 9-11:
   A. The Angel tells John to take the scroll and eat it (9a)
      B. ‘it will be bitter in your stomach’ (9b)
         C. ‘in your mouth it will be sweet as honey’ (9c)
         C. ‘it tasted as sweet as honey in my mouth’ (10a)
      B. ‘it was bitter in my stomach’ (10b)
   A. The Angel tells John ‘you must prophesy again’ (11)
This chiastic structure is important because it shows that the Angel’s order for
John to eat the scroll in verse 9a is equivalent to the order to prophesy
again in verse 11. When John ate the scroll, he assimilated the judgment
message and proclaimed it. However, because of the disappointment, it was
necessary to preach the message from the same scroll again but with added
understanding. Obviously, a person cannot do something again unless he has
done it at least once before!
According to the Exegetical Dictionary of the New Testament, the word ‘must’
‘designates an unconditional necessity; sentences with this verb have
fundamentally an absolute, unquestioned, and often anonymous and
deterministic character.’ In other words, prophesying again is not optional
but rather obligatory!


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 263 of 379
We find the ‘prophesying again in the first angel’s message. The Millerites
preached this message leading up to 1844 but the remnant needed to preach it
once more but with greater understanding. The Millerites also preached the
second angel’s message but the remnant must preach it again (Revelation
18:1-5). There are three common denominators between Revelation 10 and
Revelation 14:6, 7:
    Both contain a global message to every nation, kindred, tongue and
     people
    Both draw attention to the Creator and His Sabbath
    The little book contains the judgment hour message as does the first
     angel’s message
However, there were several points that the Millerites did not understand
because they had not yet understood that the judgment would transpire in the
most holy place of the heavenly sanctuary. Not having moved from the holy to
the most holy place, they did not yet understand the judgment, the law, the
Sabbath, the state of the dead and health reform.

A Representative Person
The question we must ask at this point is this: Does this symbolic portrayal
apply to John in the first century or does the act of John symbolize the
experience of an end time remnant. William Shea provides the answer:
“John lived at the beginning of the Christian Era when he received this vision.
However, the prophetic scene itself looks down toward the end of time, long
after John’s death. He should, therefore, be taken as representative of those
who will bear this final message, the part he was acting out under those
circumstances. It would have been physically impossible for John to bear his
message to all of the groups he was told to address (vs. 11). We may look,
therefore, for a group or movement to fulfill this commission in the end-time.”
William Shea, “The Mighty Angel and His Message,” Symposium on Revelation,
volume 1, p. 321
This prophecy, then, does not apply to John in the first century for two reasons:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 264 of 379
    First, John lived during the first century but these events take place
     during the period of the sixth trumpet at the time of the end.
    Second, it would have been impossible for John to prophesy again to
     ‘many peoples, nations, tongues, and kings.’ After all, he was a prisoner on
     Patmos and there is no evidence that he ever fulfilled this commission. A
     global message requires a global people to proclaim it.
The noted commentary on Revelation by Joseph Seiss concurs with Shea:
"As remarked long since by Irenaeus, the ancient prophets fulfilled their office of
predicting, not merely in the verbal delivery of predictions, but by themselves
seeing, hearing, or acting out the things in type, which were afterward to be seen,
heard, or acted out by others in reality-and this whether in real life, or perchance
in vision. In all which cases they were to be considered, as they are called in Isaiah
and in Zechariah, "mophthim;" that is, figurative or representative persons." J.
A. Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition of the Book of Revelation, Electronic
Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 265 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 266 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


 CHAPTER 11: MEASURE THE TEMPLE OF GOD

Revelation 11:1
“Then I was given a reed like a measuring rod and the angel, stood saying: "Rise
and measure the temple of God, the altar, and those who worship there.”
The word ‘rise’ in this verse is in the imperative mood. That is to say, the angel
commands John to rise. Why does the angel command John with the word ‘rise’
in this verse? The New Testament uses this word to describe sick people that
someone raises up by taking them by the hand (Mark 1:31; 9:27; Acts 3:7). In
the context of Revelation 10, we remember that John’s stomach got sick after
he ate the little book so presumably the angel commanded him to get up from
his sickbed to measure the temple.
The book of Revelation has several instances where the chapter division is in
the wrong place. We should see Revelation 11:1 as the concluding verse of
Revelation 10 rather than the introductory verse to chapter 11. Joseph A. Seiss
grasped the link between Revelation 10:11 and 11:1:
“The connection between what concludes the one [Revelation 10], and what
begins the other [Revelation 11], appears to be as close as it well could be: seeing
that the Angel who before addressed John still continues here to address him;


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 267 of 379
and the new injunction, Rise and measure, is but a sequel to His previous
injunction, ‘Thou must prophesy again.’” Joseph A. Seiss, The Apocalypse:
Exposition of the Book of Revelation, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998,
2003, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.

Questions about Revelation 11:1

    To which temple does Revelation 11:1 refer? Is this the heavenly
     temple or a rebuilt earthly Jerusalem temple?
    What does it mean to measure the temple, the altar and those who
     worship there?
    What does the measuring rod represent?
    Which altar? Is it the altar of sacrifice in the court or the altar of incense
     in the holy place?
    Why was it necessary to measure the altar of incense?

Which Temple?
The fundamental mistake that the Millerites made was that they believed
and taught that the earth was the sanctuary that needed cleansing, this in spite
of the fact that there is not a single text in the Bible that refers to the earth as
the sanctuary.
Clearly, the temple referred to here is the heavenly sanctuary. The Romans
destroyed the earthly temple in the year 70 AD it no longer exists. When the
sixth trumpet sounded between 1798 and 1844, the earthly temple did not
exist.
Furthermore, the book of Hebrews makes it abundantly clear that the earthly
sanctuary and its services were shadows of the heavenly. When Jesus died and
the temple veil ripped from top to bottom, God was announcing that the
ceremonial system had reached its goal and end. No need for a literal earthly
temple anymore! Jesus now ministers in the heavenly sanctuary where He
entered with His own blood. Moreover, the book of Hebrews states that the



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 268 of 379
heavenly things must be cleansed with the blood of better sacrifices than the
earthly.
Hebrews 8:1-2
“Now this is the main point of the things we are saying: We have such a High
Priest, who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
2
 a Minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord erected,
and not man.”
Hebrews 9:23
“Therefore it was necessary that the copies of the things in the heavens should
be purified with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better
sacrifices than these.”
There are two words for ‘temple’ in the New Testament. The first is hiéron and
the second is naós. The book of Revelation never uses the word hiéron that
generally refers to the entire temple complex. However, the word naós
appears 16 times and in every instance, it seems to refer exclusively to the
most holy place of the heavenly sanctuary.
In Revelation 11:19, the word naós clearly refers to the most holy place where
the Ark of the Covenant is located. This means that the most holy place of the
heavenly sanctuary had to be measured after the great disappointment:
Revelation 11:19
“Then the temple [naós] of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of His
covenant [the law that was given at Sinai] was seen in His temple [naós]. And
there were lightnings, noises, thunderings, an earthquake, and great hail.”
The phenomena that accompanied the opening of the temple are reminiscent
of when God revealed his Law on Mt. Sinai. In 1844, on the Day of Atonement,
the ark His covenant was opened and the law was seen in the ark and at the
center of the law is the Sabbath. Shortly after the opening of the most holy
place, the pioneers discovered that the law was still binding as well as the
Sabbath and the state of the dead:


    Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 269 of 379
Exodus 19:16-20
“Then it came to pass on the third day, in the morning, that there were
thunderings and lightnings, and a thick cloud on the mountain; and the sound
of the trumpet was very loud, so that all the people who were in the camp
trembled. 17 And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and
they stood at the foot of the mountain. 18 Now Mount Sinai was completely in
smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in fire. Its smoke ascended like the
smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly. 19 And when the
blast of the trumpet sounded long and became louder and louder, Moses spoke,
and God answered him by voice.”
Revelation 15:5-8 refers to naós as the temple of the tabernacle of the
testimony. The tabernacle is the total building while the temple of the
tabernacle is the most holy apartment of that tabernacle.
Revelation 15:5-8
“After these things I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the
testimony in heaven was opened. 6 And out of the temple [naós of the
tabernacle] came the seven angels having the seven plagues, clothed in pure
bright linen, and having their chests girded with golden bands. 7 Then one of the
four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the
wrath of God [probation has closed] who lives forever and ever. 8 The temple
[naós of the tabernacle] was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from
His power, and no one was able to enter the temple [naós of the tabernacle]
till the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.”

How can Earthlings Worship in Heaven?
However, the question that immediately comes to mind is this: How can God’s
people be worshipping in the heavenly temple in 1844 during the sixth
trumpet while they are still living on the earth? The answer is actually quite
simple. On the Old Testament Day of Atonement while the high priest was
cleansing the sanctuary from the sins of Israel, the people were required to


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 270 of 379
gather outside and follow the work of the high priest by faith. The people
gathered, fasted, abstained from work and afflicted their souls.
In the Old Testament sanctuary service, the court was open to the view of the
congregation but the inside of the tent itself was not. The people had to follow
the work of the priest by faith based on the description of the sanctuary that
they could read in the book of Exodus. The court represents the earthly
work of Jesus because on earth He presented Himself as the perfect lamb who
died for the sins of the world. Everything Jesus did on earth was open to the
view of the inhabitants of the earth. However, Jesus is now in heaven beyond
the view of our physical eyes. We must follow Him by faith in His work there.
There is a work of measuring the temple in heaven (examining the books of
record there) and a parallel work of measuring the spiritual temple on earth
(the actual worshipers in the church on earth). Actually, in a certain sense,
those who have claimed Jesus as Savior and Lord are written in heaven
because God keeps a precise transcript of their lives. The book of Hebrews
depicts those who enter into the heavenly temple by faith as worshiping in the
heavenly temple though they actually live on earth.
Notice, for example, Hebrews 4:14-16:
“Seeing then that we have a great High Priest who has passed through the
heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. 15 For we do not
have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all
points tempted as we are, yet without sin. 16 Let us therefore come boldly to the
throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need.”
Thus the apostle Paul could speak of the temple of God as representing the
church on earth (2Thessalonians 2:3, 4; Ephesians 2:19-22; 1Corinthians 3:16,
17; 6:19, 20; 2Corinthians 6:16) while the book of Revelation describes it as the
place where Jesus ministers in heaven.

In the Temple of God as God

The apostle Paul describes the coming antichrist as one who would sit in the
temple of God claiming to be God:

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 271 of 379
2 Thessalonians 2:4
“. . . who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is
worshiped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is
God.”
Is the expression ‘temple of God’ in 2 Thessalonians 2 a reference to a literal
rebuilt Jerusalem temple? Obviously not! The temple of God is in heaven so it
is impossible for the antichrist sit in that temple. The antichrist does not sit in
the heavenly temple but rather in the earthly one—the church—which is the
earthly reflection of the heavenly temple.
Matthew 21:12, 13: When Jesus entered the Jewish temple at the conclusion
of the triumphal entry He described the temple as ‘the temple of God’ and ‘My
house’:
“Then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and
sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats
of those who sold doves. 13 And He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be
called a house of prayer,' but you have made it a 'den of thieves.'"
However, when Jesus forsook the temple a short while later, He said to the
Jewish leadership:
Matthew 23:38
“See! Your house is left to you desolate.”
Clearly, the Jewish temple was no longer God’s temple after Jesus left it. When
the apostle Paul used the word ‘temple’ (naós), he always applied it spiritually
to the Christian church and never to the literal Jewish temple (1Corinthians
3:16, 17; 6:19, 20; 2Corinthians 6:16; Ephesians 2:21).
The New Testament contains two Greek words that are translated ‘temple’.
One is hiéron and the other is naós. The apostle Paul never used the word naós
to refer to the Jewish temple. Without exception, he used the word naós as a
reference to the spiritual temple, the Christian church. The book of Acts, refers


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 272 of 379
to the Jewish ‘temple’ 25 times and it is never called it naós. Furthermore, none
of the epistles uses the word naós to refer to the literal Jewish temple.
Paul explained to the Ephesians what he meant by the word ‘temple’:
Ephesians 2:19-22
“Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens
with the saints and members of the household of God, 20 having been built on the
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief
cornerstone, 21 in whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a
holy temple in the Lord, 22 in whom you also are being built together for a
dwelling place of God in the Spirit.”
In this passage, the apostle Paul clearly explains that the temple is a spiritual
house composed of spiritual materials:
      Foundations of the temple: Apostles and Prophets
      Chief Cornerstone: Jesus
      Stones: Believers
      Shekinah: The Holy Spirit (invisible)

In conclusion, the man of sin who sits in the temple of God must sit within the
Christian Church. We can clearly see the link between the little horn and the
man of sin by the fact that the little horn/beast speaks blasphemies against
the Most High and demands worship.
It is hardly a coincidence that Pope Benedict XVI, at the conclusion of the week
for Christian unity in St. Paul’s Outside the Wall, sat on a great white throne
and on each side of the throne was a cherub. Later, Pope Francis has also
occupied this throne. Thus, Francis usurps the position of the great YHWH God,
who sits between the cherubim in the heavenly sanctuary (Psalm 80:1).

What does it mean to measure?

The act of measuring is a symbolic way of expressing the act of judging. The
word ‘measure’ in Greek is metreo from where we get the word ‘meter’.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 273 of 379
2 Kings 21:13
“And I will stretch over Jerusalem the measuring line of Samaria and the
plummet of the house of Ahab; I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping
it and turning it upside down.”
Matthew 7:2

"Judge not, that you be not judged. 2 For with what judgment you judge, you will
be judged; and with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you.”
Ellen White concurs:
“The grand judgment is taking place, and has been going on for some time. Now
the Lord says, Measure the temple and the worshipers thereof. Remember
when you are walking the streets about your business, God is measuring you;
when you are attending your household duties, when you engage in conversation,
God is measuring you. Remember that your words and actions are being
daguerreotyped [photographed] in the books of heaven, as the face is
reproduced by the artist on the polished plate. . .” Seventh-day Adventist Bible
Commentary, volume 7, p. 972
In a personal testimony to a judgmental woman in the church, Ellen White
linked the concepts of measuring tape, balance, judgment and sanctuary:
“You can be a blessing. You can help such as need help; but you must lay down
your measuring tape, for that is not for you to use. One who is unerring in
judgment, who understands the weakness of our fallen, corrupt natures, holds
the standard Himself. He weighs in the balances of the sanctuary, and His just
measure we shall all accept. Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, p. 438
In another place, Ellen White explained what the tape measure is:
“When the Judgment is set and the books opened, your life and mine will be
measured by the law of the Most High.” Signs of the Times, December 29, 1887
“Every case is coming in review before God; He is measuring the temple and the
worshipers therein.” 7T, p. 219


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 274 of 379
“The Lord has provided His church with capabilities and blessings, that they may
present to the world an image of His own sufficiency, and that His church may be
complete in Him, a continual representation of another, even the eternal world,
of laws that are higher than earthly laws. His church is to be a temple built after
the divine similitude, and the angelic architect has brought his golden
measuring rod from heaven, that every stone may be hewed and squared by the
divine measurement and polished to shine as an emblem of heaven, radiating in
all directions the bright, clear beams of the Sun of Righteousness.” 1T, p. 17
Ellen White agreed with James when she wrote that God would judge us by the
perfect law of liberty.
We must understand the idea of measuring the heavenly temple in Revelation
11:1 in the context of the preceding chapter where we find a description of
the little book episode. As we have seen, a message of judgment came out of
the little book beginning at the time of the end (post 1798) which John
(representing God’s people) devoured and proclaimed. As John devoured it,
the message was sweet in the mouth but the aftermath was bitter. Thus,
somehow the message of judgment that came out of the little book would be at
first sweet and then bitter. After the bittersweet experience, the Angel told John
to prophesy again from the little book and the message had to do with the
measuring of the temple.
The Altar
The altar here must be the one in the holy place and not the one in the court
because the angel instructed John not to measure the court (11:2). Jesus died,
so to speak, at the altar in the court in the first century, but the measurement
of this altar began during the sixth trumpet near the close of time.
Kenneth Strand has shown in an incisive article that the background to
Revelation 11:1 is in the Day of Atonement of Leviticus 16. On Yom Kippur,
there was an atonement for the priests, the sanctuary, the altar and the
congregation. Revelation mentions three of these four, leaving out the atoning
for the priest. Jesus needs no atonement or measuring on the Day of Atonement.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 275 of 379
In both Leviticus 16 and Revelation 11:1, we see the same movement from the
temple to the altar to the worshipers.
We must underline once again that John sees those who worship in the temple
as worshiping in heaven although they are physically on the earth. This is a
common way of expressing that God’s people enter boldly into the heavenly
sanctuary by faith while they are still live physically on earth (Hebrews 4:16;
7:25; 10:19-22; 12:22-24). Until 1844, the faith of God’s people entered the
holy place but after 1844, their faith enters the most holy place. Peter made
this very clear on the day of Pentecost when he spoke about the installation of
Jesus as our intercessor in the holy place (cf. Acts 2; Revelation 4:5; 5:6).
How do people draw near to the throne of grace? It is through their prayers:
Psalm 141:2
“Let my prayer be set before You as incense, the lifting up of my hands as the
evening sacrifice.”
Luke 1 explains that when the congregation prays, the priest in the holy place
mingles the incense with their prayers:
Luke 1:8-10
“So it was, that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his
division, 9 according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn incense
when he went into the temple of the Lord. 10 And the whole multitude of the
people was praying outside at the hour of incense.”
However, the incense does not represent prayer. Rather, the priest mingled the
incense with the prayers of God’s people:
Revelation 8:3, 4
“Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He was
given much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all the saints upon
the golden altar that was before the throne. 4 And the smoke of the incense, with
the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 276 of 379
Ellen White described beautifully the relationship between the incense and
prayer:
“Christ has pledged Himself to be our substitute and surety, and He neglects no
one. There is an inexhaustible fund of perfect obedience accruing from His
obedience. In heaven His merits, His self-denial and self-sacrifice, are treasured up
as incense to be offered up with the prayers of His people. As the sinner's
sincere, humble prayers ascend to the throne of God, Christ mingles with them
the merits of His life of perfect obedience. Our prayers are made fragrant by
this incense.” In Heavenly Places, p. 69
However, not all prayers are sincere and genuine. For this reason, the altar
must be measured to reveal who came to the throne of grace with a sincere and
repentant heart.
Proverbs 28:9, NKJV, NIV
“One who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an
abomination.”
“If anyone turns a deaf ear to the law, even his prayers are detestable.”
Jeremiah 7:16
"Therefore do not pray for this people, nor lift up a cry or prayer for them, nor
make intercession to Me; for I will not hear you.”
Psalm 66:18-19

“If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear. 19 But certainly God has
heard me; He has attended to the voice of my prayer.”

Why a Judgment of God’s People?
However, we wonder what possible purpose there could be for God to judge
His own people. After all, does not God know who truly belongs to Him?
The noted commentator, Albert Barnes, considered it highly unusual that God
should judge His own people:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 277 of 379
“There is some apparent incongruity in directing him to ‘measure’ those who
were engaged in worship; but the obvious meaning is, that he was to take a
correct estimate of their character; of what they professed; of the reality of
their piety; of their lives, and of the general state of the church considered as
professedly worshipping God.” Barnes' Notes; Electronic Database Copyright ©
1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Incorporated.
1 Peter 4:17 explains that judgment must begin in the house of God. The house
of God is composed of everyone who has ever claimed the name of Jesus:
“For the time has come for judgment to begin at the house of God; and if it
begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of
God?”
1 Timothy 3:14, 15: The house of God is the church:
“These things I write to you, though I hope to come to you shortly; 15 but if I am
delayed, I write so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the
house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the
truth.”
“As the books of record are opened in the judgment, the lives of all who have
believed on Jesus come in review before God. Beginning with those who first
lived upon the earth, our Advocate presents the cases of each successive
generation, and closes with the living. Every name is mentioned, every case
closely investigated. Names are accepted, names rejected. When any have sins
remaining upon the books of record, unrepented of and unforgiven, their
names will be blotted out of the book of life, and the record of their good deeds
will be erased from the book of God's remembrance.” GC, p. 483
Clearly, the judgment that Revelation 11:1 describes applies only to those who
professed to follow Jesus and worshiped by faith at the altar of incense in the
temple.
Review of Revelation 10

Here is a summary of the chronological sequence of events in Revelation 10:


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 278 of 379
   The Angel descended from heaven to the earth (verse 1).
   The Angel’s physical characteristics were described (verse 1).
   The Angel brought in his right hand an open scroll. This means that the
    Angel had already opened it before he descended to the earth (verse 2).
   The Angel placed one foot on dry land and the other on the sea (verse 2).
   The Angel then spoke with the roar of the lion that echoed like seven
    thunders (verses 3-4).
   The Angel then instructed John to seal the message that the thunders
    uttered and not to write down their message.
   The Angel then swore the oath in the name of the Creator that time
    would be no longer (verses 5-7).
   The angel then gave the book to John instructing him to eat it and told
    him it would be bitter in his stomach and sweet as honey in his mouth
    (verses 8-9).
   John then eats the book and it is sweet in his mouth (verse 10).
   The aftermath of eating the book was indigestion (verse 10).
   The same Angel then instructed John to prophesy again from the little
    book (verse 11).
   The same Angel commanded John to measure the temple and those who
    worship therein (11:1).
   The ‘mystery of God’ ended when the seventh angel was about to blow
    his trumpet (10:7).
   When the seventh trumpet blows, Jesus takes over the kingdoms of the
    world (Revelation 11:15-17).
Why does our Church Exist?

God raised up the Seventh-day Adventist Church shortly after 1844 to obey
the order to prophesy again, announcing to the world that God is measuring
the heavenly sanctuary and those who worship there. God established the
organization of this church to make it possible to take the three angels’
message to the world. This is the reason for our existence and woe be to us if
we fail to live up to our calling:


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 279 of 379
“In a special sense Seventh-day Adventists have been set in the world as
watchmen [defensive task] and light bearers [offensive task]. To them has
been entrusted the last warning for a perishing world. On them is shining
wonderful light from the word of God. They have been given a work of the most
solemn import—the proclamation of the first, second, and third angels' messages.
There is no other work of so great importance. They are to allow nothing else
to absorb their attention.” 9T, p. 19
“In the balances of the sanctuary the Seventh-day Adventist church is to be
weighed. She will be judged by the privileges and advantages that she has had.
If her spiritual experience does not correspond to the advantages that Christ, at
infinite cost, has bestowed on her, if the blessings conferred have not qualified her
to do the work entrusted to her, on her will be pronounced the sentence:
"Found wanting." By the light bestowed, the opportunities given, will she be
judged. . .” LDE, pp. 59, 60




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 280 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


CHAPTER 12: DANIEL 10 AND THE LITTLE BOOK

Historical Time Frame

Daniel was 88 years old when the events of Daniel 10 transpired. We know this
because we are told in 4T 570, that Daniel was 18 years of age when
Nebuchadnezzar took him captive to Babylon (Daniel 1:1-2). The events of
chapter 10 begin while Daniel was still in Babylon although Cyrus had already
given the decree authorizing the return of the Jews to Jerusalem. We know this
because Daniel was by the great river Hiddekel, that is to say, the Tigris (10:4).

Chronological Matters

It is of the utmost importance to remember the dates that we find in Daniel,
chapters eight through eleven:
    The events of Daniel 8 took place in the year 550 BC, roughly eleven
     years before the fall of Babylon (in 539 BC) and fourteen years before
     Cyrus’ decree of release (in 536 BC).
    Daniel 9 bears the date 538 BC. At this point Babylon had fallen but
     Cyrus had not yet given his decree of release.
    The events of chapter 10 transpire in the year 535 B. C. Cyrus had
     already given his decree and the first wave of Jews had returned to


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 281 of 379
     rebuild the temple.
    Chapter 11 bears the same date as chapter 10 because it is the
     continuation of it.
Daniel 11:1 seems to indicate that the entire chapter bears the same date as
Daniel 9 (538 BC). This would mean that the events of Daniel 11 transpired
before those of chapter 10. However, a careful analysis of Daniel 11:1 reveals
that this verse contains a parenthetical statement inserted by Daniel between
Daniel 10:21 and Daniel 11:2. In other words, Daniel 11:1 is out of
chronological order with the events that come before and after it. In 11:1 Daniel
is simply explaining that he also confirmed and strengthened Darius the Mede
in the first year of his rule (Daniel 9:1-2). In short, the text of Daniel 10:20-11:2
(skipping Daniel 11:1) should look like this:
“Then he said, "Do you know why I have come to you? And now I must return to
fight with the prince of Persia; and when I have gone forth, indeed the prince of
Greece will come. 21 But I will tell you what is noted in the Scripture of Truth.
(No one upholds me against these, except Michael your prince. "Also in the first
year of Darius the Mede, I, even I, stood up to confirm and strengthen him.) 2 And
now I will tell you the truth: Behold, three more kings will arise in Persia, and
the fourth shall be far richer than them all; by his strength, through his riches, he
shall stir up all against the realm of Greece.”
It is obvious that the words in bold both before and after Daniel’s parenthetical
statement bear a close relationship to each another. In both there is a reference
to Persia and Greece and in both Gabriel says to Daniel ‘I will tell you the truth.’
It is safe to conclude, then, that the introductory vision of Daniel 10 continues
in chapter 11. Both chapters bear the same date. Thus, Daniel 10 is the
introduction to the explanation provided by Gabriel in Daniel 11:2-12:3.
Daniel 12:4-13 should then be understood as the epilogue to the book of Daniel
in general and of Daniel 8-12 in particular.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 282 of 379
Comments on Daniel 10:1

The ‘thing’ (dabar) that Gabriel revealed to Daniel in the third year of Cyrus
(535 B. C.) was actually the explanation we find in Daniel 11:2-12:3.
Significantly, Daniel did not receive a new vision in this year. He merely
received a word (‘thing’) which explained the vision (mareh) which had
previously been given in chapter 8. For the purpose of clarity, I will quote verse
1 and provide explanatory notes in brackets:
‘In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a message [the explanation of Daniel
11:2-12:4] was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar. The
message [the explanation of Daniel 11:2-12:3] was true, but the appointed
time was long [because the explanation covered the periods of Persia,
Greece, imperial Rome, papal Rome in its two stages, the close of probation,
the time of trouble, and the final deliverance of God’s people]; and he
understood the message [Daniel 11:2-12:3], and had understanding of the
vision [the vision of the 2300 days of Daniel 8:14 because there was no new
vision in Daniel 11].”

Comments on Daniel 10:2-4

In verses 2-4 Daniel is fasting and praying. Until this point in the book, we
have seen Daniel as a man of intense prayer (Daniel 2:17-18; 6:10-11; 9:3-19).
However, Daniel 10 tells us that Daniel not only prayed. He also was
mourning and fasting. What grave historical circumstances led Daniel not
only to pray but also to mourn and fast?
We know that Daniel’s agony had nothing to do with the decree for God’s
people to return to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. At this point, Cyrus had
already given the decree and the first wave of exiles had returned (Ezra 1:1-4;
3:1-8; 1:1). Neither did Daniel’s agony have to do with whether Artaxerxes
would utter the decree to restore and build Jerusalem because this decree
was still eighty years in the future. Furthermore, Daniel was not mourning
because he did not understand the ‘vision’ (mareh) of Daniel 8 because verse 1



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 283 of 379
tells us that he did understand it at this point. Why, then, was Daniel praying,
mourning and fasting? There appear to be two reasons.
In the first place, three years before the events of Daniel 10, Gabriel had
already explained in broad strokes the basic elements of the prophecy of the
2300 days. However, many details were still unclear in the mind of Daniel.
This motivated Daniel’s prayer. The prophet was seeking wisdom to
understand the unexplained elements of the vision of Daniel 8. In response to
Daniel’s plea, God provided the material we find in Daniel 11:2-12:
Ellen G. White explained:
“Upon the occasion just described [Daniel 9], the angel Gabriel imparted to
Daniel all the instruction which he was then able to receive. A few years
afterward [535 BC], however, the prophet desired to learn more of the subjects
not yet fully explained, and again set himself to seek light and wisdom from God.
‘In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks. I ate no pleasant bread,
neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all. . .’”
(Ellen G. White, The Sanctified Life, p. 49).
Perhaps this would be a good time to examine the relationship between the
prophecies of Daniel 8, 9, 10 and 11. We can discern the close relationship
between these prophecies in the continued use of the words ‘vision’ and
‘understand’.
    In Daniel 8:16 Gabriel was given the command to make Daniel
     understand the vision (mareh) but at the end of the chapter (8:26-27)
     we are told that Daniel did not understand the vision (mareh).
    In Daniel 9:23 Gabriel came back to Daniel and told him to ‘understand
     the matter, and consider the vision’ (mareh).
    After Gabriel’s explanation, Daniel 10:1 tells us that Daniel ‘understood
     the thing, and had understanding in the vision’ (mareh).
    Yet in Daniel 10:2-3, 12 Daniel pleaded for God to give him further
     understanding.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 284 of 379
    As a result, Gabriel came back to explain further details which were still
     unclear in Daniel’s mind. Gabriel explained:
      “Now I have come to make you understand what will happen to your
      people in the latter days, for the vision [chazon] refers to many days yet
      to come." (Daniel 10:14).
    God gave this further understanding to Daniel in chapter 11 where
     Gabriel provided the fullest explanation of the unexplained portions of
     Daniel 8. Significantly, as we shall see in our study Daniel 12, the prophet
     did not even then understand everything (Daniel 12:8-10). When the
     book of Daniel ended, Daniel still did not understand all. This is why God
     gave the book of Revelation, to expand upon the book of Daniel. Daniel
     8-12 is a close-knit prophecy and the Apocalypse is a Revelation or
     explanation of that prophecy. Regarding this Ellen White states:
      “The things revealed to Daniel were afterward complemented by the
      revelation made to John on the Isle of Patmos. We should carefully study
      these books. . . The book of Daniel is unsealed in the revelation to John,
      and carries us forward to the last scenes of this earth’s history.”
      (Testimonies to Ministers, pp. 114-115).
The phrase ‘the time of the end’ also connects the prophecies of Daniel 8-11. In
Daniel 8:17, 19 Gabriel told the prophet that the mareh is for the ‘time of the
end’. In our previous study of Daniel 8, we noticed that the word mareh
particularly denotes the events connected with the conclusion of the 2300
days. What this means is that the mareh would not be present truth neither
would it be fully comprehended until the ‘time of the end’.
Significantly, there is no reference to the time of the end in Daniel 9 because
the focus of this chapter is not on the time of the end but rather on the time of
probation for Daniel’s literal people, that is, the Jewish nation. However, in
chapter 10:14 Gabriel once more informs Daniel that the vision (chazon) is for
what will befall his people (spiritual Israel) in the latter days ‘for yet the
vision (chazon) is for many days.’ Why does Daniel 10:14 use the word chazon
for ‘vision’ instead of the word mareh?

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 285 of 379
In order to answer this question, we must keep in mind that the word chazon
in Daniel 8 refers to the totality of the vision from the time of Persia until the
cleansing of the sanctuary at the conclusion of the 2300 days. On the other hand,
the word mareh appears in a more restricted sense to describe the
apparition of the two heavenly messengers who explained the time element
of the 2300 days (Daniel 8:13-14).
We can now understand why Gabriel used mareh in Daniel 8:17 while he used
chazon in Daniel 10:14. The reason is actually quite simple. You see, when
Gabriel returned in Daniel 11, he not only explained the time element of the
2300 days but he also explained the totality of the vision of Daniel 8 once
again beginning with Persia and ending with the final persecution and
deliverance of God’s people. In other words, he explained once again not only
the mareh but also the total chazon.
Moving on to Daniel 11:40 we find a clear description of the events that would
befall Daniel’s people during the ‘time of the end’. After the papacy ruled the
world for 1260 years (Daniel 11:30-39), the king of the south—France—would
give it a deadly wound in 1798. (Daniel 11:40A). However, the king of the north
would then recover its power and overwhelm the world even to the point of
attempting to annihilate Daniel’s end-time people (11:40-45). Nevertheless, in
the hour of utmost extremity, God would intervene to deliver His people (12:1).
The events that began in Daniel 11:40 are the ones that Gabriel had not
explained in Daniel 8 and 9. Notice the excellent summary provided Louis
Were:
“In Daniel 9 the prophecy of the 2300 days was explained down to the
overthrow of the Jewish nation as God’s chosen people and the destruction of
Jerusalem. However, the prophet had not yet been told all the rest of the time
belonging to the 2300 days and the final events of earth’s history. He therefore
prayed for light on these things, and Gabriel came explaining to Daniel the
reason for his delay [more on this later]: ‘But the prince of the kingdom of
Persia withstood me one and twenty days [the 21 days Daniel was praying]:
but lo, Michael the first Prince came to help me. . . Now I am come to make thee

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 286 of 379
understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days: for yet the vision is for
many days. . . and now will I return to fight with the prince of Persia.” (Daniel
10:2-20). Louis F. Were, The Battle for the Kingship of the World, pp. 12-13.
When Gabriel concluded his explanation in Daniel 11:2-12:3, the prophet
Gabriel told him to ‘shut up the words and seal up the book until the time of the
end’. In other words, the time element of the 2300 days of Daniel chapters 8-
12 would be in great measure unintelligible until 1798. However, Gabriel
assured Daniel that at the time of the end the book would be opened and
knowledge of its contents would be increased (Daniel 12:4). Revelation 10
fulfilled this promise with the removal of the seal from the last half of Daniel.
After 1798 and in the Great Advent Awakening of the 1830’s and 1840’s there
was great interest in the study of the book of Daniel.
Just a few remarks about the epilog of Daniel’s ‘little book’. In the epilog (Daniel
12:5-13) Gabriel gave additional chronological explanations but these proved
to be too much for Daniel to understand (12:8-9) so Gabriel told the prophet:
‘But go thou thy way until the end be: for thou shalt rest and stand up in thy lot at
the end of the days.’ (Daniel 12:13).
At this point Gabriel decided to burden Daniel no more. He simply told the
prophet that these things were not for his time but rather for the time of the
end. The enigmatic statement, ‘thou shalt rest and stand in thy lot’ could be taken
to mean that Daniel was to resurrect at the end of time or that he would stand
up figuratively to speak through his writings at the time of the end (Prophets
and Kings, p. 547). The second option is the most persuasive.
We can find one final thing that links the prophecies of Daniel 8-11 and that is
the role performed by the angel Gabriel. In Chapter 8, God commanded
Gabriel to explain the vision to Daniel. When Daniel failed to understand
Gabriel’s explanation, he came back in Daniel 9 to explain it. Then, in chapters
10 and 11, Gabriel who contended with the Prince and the kings of Persia and
Gabriel gave the explanation we find in Daniel 11:2-12:3.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 287 of 379
However, there was a second reason why Daniel was agonizing in prayer. As
we have previously noted, the events of Daniel 10 took place in the year 535
BC. Just one year earlier, Cyrus had given a decree authorizing the rebuilding
of the temple and had even provided materials to carry forward the task (Ezra
1:1-4). The first wave of Jews had enthusiastically returned to Jerusalem and
quickly laid the foundations of the temple and the altar (Ezra 3:8-10). At first,
the Samaritans feigned to have great interest in the rebuilding of the temple
and offered to help (Ezra 4:1-2). However, when they were rebuffed by
Zerubbabel (Ezra 4:3), the opposition began. Notice the words of Ezra:
“Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and
troubled them in building. And hired counselors against them, to frustrate their
purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king
of Persia.” (Ezra 4:4-5)
During the reign of Cambyses, the opposition became so great that for a time
the rebuilders of the temple suspended their work. In the reign of Darius
Hystaspes (also known as Darius the Persian) the governors of the land even
came to the builders and demanded to know who had given them permission
to rebuild the temple (Ezra 5:2-4).
The governors of the land sent a letter to king Darius to find out if the Jews had
royal permission to rebuild the temple. (Ezra 5:7-17). Ezra 6:1-3 tells us that
Darius searched the archives in order to ascertain if any previous decree had
been given that authorized the Jews to rebuild the temple. When Darius found
Cyrus’ original decree in the archives, he sent a letter renewing the decree of
Cyrus (Ezra 6:7-13). Because of this confirmatory decree and due to the help of
Zechariah and Haggai, the temple was finally finished in the year 515 BC.
It is in the context of this opposition that we must understand the mourning
and fasting of Daniel in chapter 10. Daniel knew at this point that the
rebuilding of the temple was imperative to make possible the fulfillment of the
prophecy of the seventy weeks and the 2300 days. Yet the historical
circumstances seemed to indicate that the temple would not take place



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 288 of 379
according to schedule. Therefore, Daniel poured out his heart to God in prayer
pleading for the Lord to fulfill His promise.

Comments on Verses 4-6

These verses describe a magnificent Christophany. Daniel saw a vision of
Christ and the description is virtually identical with that of the glorified Christ
in Revelation 1:13-16 and the Mighty Angel of Revelation 10:1, 2. This
indicates that Daniel did not see Jesus, as He was clothed at that very moment,
but rather prophetically, as He would be clothed upon his inauguration as
High Priest after His ascension.

Comments on Verses 7-9

These verses describe the impact the vision had on those who were present
with Daniel. Although they did not see the glorified Christ, they felt the intense
solemnity of the occasion. The text tells us that they fled to hide and therefore
Daniel remained alone. The text also tells us that Daniel heard Christ speak
to him but Christ’s words were not recorded.

Comments on Verses 10-14

As Daniel lay on the ground, a hand touched him and set him upon his knees
and the palms of his hands. The text identifies Gabriel as the person who
touched the prophet.
Some have erroneously concluded that the person whom Daniel saw in his
vision (verses 5-6) is the same as the one who touched him. However, there is
no reason to reach this conclusion. Verse 10 marks a clear break between the
personage Daniel saw in vision and the person who lifted him up. The words
are clear:
“Suddenly, a hand touched me [not necessarily the hand of the person he saw
in vision], which made me tremble on my knees and on the palms of my hands.”
(Daniel 10:10).




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 289 of 379
As we have previously noted from the book of Ezra (see page 5 above), the
Samaritans assiduously opposed the rebuilding of the temple, even to the
point of complaining to the Persian kings. As we have seen, during the reigns
of Cambyses and Darius I the work on the temple ceased for a time.
Now, if the book of Ezra were our only source of information about this
experience, we might conclude that the opposition was due to mere human
factors. However, Daniel 10 gives us a glimpse behind the veil of human
history. Here we discern invisible cosmic powers doing their utmost to
influence earthly human events. Verse 13 describes this battle between the
prince of Persia and Gabriel, a battle so intense that it was finally necessary for
Michael to come to Gabriel’s aid:
“But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days; and
behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I had been left
alone there with the kings of Persia.”
Three questions emerge when we read this verse.
    Who is the prince of the kingdom of Persia?
    Who is Michael?
    What was the reason for the conflict between these two persons?
From the start, we must recognize that the prince of the kingdom of Persia is
not the same as the king of Persia. The word ‘prince’ appear some 420 times
in the Old Testament and not once does the word describe a king. The word
most frequently describes military commanders. Daniel 10:13 indicates that
Gabriel and Michael were working on two fronts. First, they were contending
with the prince of the kingdom of Persia and secondly they were working upon
the minds of the kings of Persia. Thus, there is a clear distinction between the
prince of Persia and the kings of Persia.
Who is this prince of the kingdom of Persia, and who is Michael who stands
watch over Daniel’s people?
Before we can answer these questions, it is imperative to realize that ancient
cultures believed that every kingdom had its own particular ‘guardian angel’

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 290 of 379
who looked out for the interests and welfare of the nation. That being the case,
the prince of the kingdom of Persia would be Persia’s ‘guardian angel’ and
Michael would be Israel’s guardian Angel.
Michael is a fascinating personage. In Scripture, the specific name appears five
times, always in apocalyptic passages where Michael is in conflict with Satan.
Michael’s very name is a challenge to Satan. It means, ‘Who is like God?’
Revelation 12:7-9 tells us that Michael cast Satan and his angels out of heaven.
It is of more than passing interest that at the beginning of the great controversy,
Michael had his angels and Satan had his. At the conclusion of the great
controversy, Jesus will come with his holy angels (Matthew 24:31) and Satan
and his angels will be cast in the lake of fire (Matthew 25:41).
In Jude 9 Michael contended with Satan for the body of Moses. The testimony
of Scripture indicates that Michael had come on this occasion to resurrect
Moses from the dead (see Deuteronomy 34:5-6; Matthew 17:3). Clearly,
Michael is the Angel who has resurrecting power. It is no coincidence that
when Jesus comes to resurrect the dead at His second coming, he will ‘descend
from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel, and with the trump of
God’ (1Thessalonians 4:16; see also John 5:26-29 where we are told that the
voice of Jesus will resurrect the dead).
The book of Daniel contains three references to Michael. Two of them are in
the chapter we are presently studying (verses 13, 21) and the other is in Daniel
12:1. This last verse is of particular importance for two reasons:
    First, the text describes Michael as the great prince who stands watch
     over Israel. That is to say, Michael is Israel’s guardian angel.
    Second, Michael is the deliverer of Israel and the one who resurrects
     those who sleep in the dust of the earth (Daniel 12:2).
The Old Testament also refers to Michael as ‘the Angel of the Lord’. Our present
study will not allow us to examine every reference to the Angel of the Lord in
the Old Testament, but we must consider a few key passages.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 291 of 379
The first passage is Zechariah 3:1-5. These verses leave no doubt that the
Angel of the Lord in the Old Testament is the same person as Michael. In this
passage, the Angel of the Lord is in conflict with Satan and the issue of the
conflict is Israel in the person of the high priest (verse 2). Of particular
significance are the words: ‘The LORD rebuke thee, O Satan’ (verse 2). These are
the very words that Michael uttered to Satan when He came to resurrect
Moses (Jude 9). Thus, a comparison of Zechariah 3:1-5 with Jude 9 reveals,
without a doubt, that the Angel of the Lord is Michael.
In Genesis 32:11, 24, 26, 30 we find Jacob praying for God to deliver him from
the wrath of his brother, Esau. Other places in Scripture describe Jacob’s
anguish as the ‘time of Jacob’s trouble.’ In fact, Genesis 32 is in the background
of the time of trouble spoken of in Daniel 12:1. As Jacob was praying, the Angel
of the Lord (see Hosea 12:3-5) laid hold of him and they began to struggle. The
result of the story is well known. Not only did the Angel deliver Jacob from the
wrath of his brother but he also blessed him and gave him a new name. At the
conclusion of this episode, Jacob called the place Peniel ‘for I have seen God
face to face, and my life has been preserved’ (this word is frequently translated
‘delivered’ in the Old Testament). Can anyone doubt that the Angel of the Lord
in this story is God?
Exodus 14:19-20 explains that the Angel of God led Israel in a pillar of cloud
by day and in a pillar of fire by night to protect them from their enemies. Verse
24 identifies this Angel as God.
The burning bush story is well known. The Angel of the Lord appeared to
Moses and announced that he was going to deliver Israel (Exodus 3:8) from
their bondage to the Egyptians. One cannot help but remember that Michael is
also the end-time deliverer of spiritual Israel in Daniel 12:1. A close inspection
of Exodus 3:2-14 reveals that this Angel is also God (see John 8:58-59).
In Joshua 5:13-15 this same Angel is identified as the Prince of the host who
had come to defend Israel in the conquest of Jericho. As we saw in our study
on Daniel 8, we find the name ‘Prince of the host’ in only one other place in
Scripture, Daniel 8:11 that refers to Jesus as ‘the Prince of the host.’ In fact, as

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 292 of 379
we have seen before, Daniel refers to Jesus as ‘the Prince of the host,’ ‘the Prince
of princes,’ the ‘Prince of the covenant,’ and ‘the great Prince.’
There can be no doubt, then, that Michael is Israel’s Guardian Angel. He is
Israel’s protector and deliverer from the power of Satan. He is God! Michael
is none other than Jesus Christ! What an appropriate name for one who is in
contention with Lucifer, who had declared, ‘I will be like the Most High.’ (Isaiah
14:14) In response to Lucifer’s ambitions, Jesus’ name throws out the challenge:
‘Who is Like God’?
We are now ready to identify the prince of the kingdom of Persia. If Michael
the Prince is Christ, then the prince of the kingdom of Persia must be Satan.
Jesus called Satan the ‘prince of the world’ on at least three occasions (John
14:30; 12:30-33; 16:11).
Now that we have identified the contending parties, we can discuss the reason
for the battle. As we saw in our study of Daniel 9, God had promised that Israel
would spend 70 years in Babylonian captivity and then would return to their
land to rebuild the temple, the city and the walls. However, the restoration and
building of the city and walls could not take place until the temple was rebuilt.
The decree of Cyrus in 536 BC was a great victory for God. Everything appeared
to be going according to schedule. However, then the opposition of the
Samaritans ensued. Daniel 10 leaves no doubt that this opposition did not
originate with the Samaritans. The prince of the kingdom of Persia (Satan)
was working to influence the minds of the kings of Persia so that they would
halt the work of rebuilding the temple. At the same time, Gabriel was doing
his utmost to influence the minds of the kings of Persia so that they would
authorize the continuation of the work.
For three weeks, while Daniel was mourning and praying, Gabriel struggled
with the prince of Persia and with the minds of the kings of Persia.
Furthermore, at the very end of this period, Michael Himself came to aid Gabriel
in the struggle. Doubtless, we must understand the 21 days as literal days.
However, it is tempting to understand them in a broader sense as well by
applying the year/day principle.

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 293 of 379
Cyrus uttered his decree to rebuild the temple in the year 536 BC and the
temple was finally finished in the year 515 BC, exactly 21 years after Cyrus gave
the decree! During this entire period, Gabriel was struggling with Satan and
with the kings of Persia (notice the plural ‘kings’ in Daniel 10:13). The book of
Ezra itself explains that the work of rebuilding went on according to schedule
because ‘the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they [the
Samaritans] could not cause them to cease.’ (Ezra 5:5)
In short, it is as if Gabriel was telling Daniel:
‘I know you have been mourning, fasting and praying for three full weeks because
you wanted a clearer understanding of the end-time elements of the vision of
Daniel 8. The very moment you started to pray, I had every intention of coming
immediately to answer your plea as I had done the previous time you prayed
(Daniel 9:20-23) but this time I was delayed. You see, I was involved in this conflict
with the prince of the kingdom of Persia. He was influencing the minds of the
Persian kings so that they would halt the rebuilding of the temple. However, at
the end of the 21 days, Michael came to help me and we prevailed. The opposition
you have seen by the Samaritans is really the visible manifestation of this invisible
conflict. Nevertheless, now I have finally been able to break away and help you
understand ‘what shall befall thy people in the latter days: for yet the vision is
for many days.’ (Daniel 10:14)’.
Do not miss the significance of the word yet. This word seems to imply that
Gabriel had already explained part of the vision (chazon) in Daniel 9 (the 70
weeks) but that there were yet many days in the vision that Gabriel still needed
to explain.
Ellen White confirmed this scenario:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 294 of 379
“Untiring in their opposition, the Samaritans ‘weakened the hands of the people
of Judah, and troubled them in building, and hired counselors against them, to
frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign
of Darius.’ (Ezra 4:4, 5). By false reports, they aroused suspicion in minds easily
led to suspect. However, for many years the powers of evil were held in check
[because of Gabriel and Michael], and the people of Judea had liberty to
continue their work.
“While Satan was striving to influence the highest powers in the kingdom of
Medo-Persia to show disfavor to God’s people, angels worked in behalf of the
exiles. The controversy was one in which all heaven was interested. Through the
prophet Daniel we are given a glimpse of this mighty struggle between the forces
of good and the forces of evil. For three weeks Gabriel wrestled with the powers
of darkness, seeking to counteract the influences at work on the mind of Cyrus;
and before the contest closed, Christ Himself came to Gabriel’s aid [Daniel
10:13 is quoted]. All that heaven could do in behalf of the people of God was done.
The victory was finally gained; the forces of the enemy were held in check all the
days of Cyrus, and all the days of his son Cambyses, who reigned about seven and
a half years.” Prophets and Kings, pp. 571-572.
“The king of Persia was controlled by the highest of all evil angels. He refused, as
did Pharaoh, to obey the word of the Lord. Gabriel declared, He withstood me
twenty-one days by his representations against the Jews. But Michael came to
his help, and then he remained with the kings of Persia, holding the powers in
check, giving right counsel against evil counsel.” Seventh-day Adventist Bible
Commentary, volume 4, p. 1173.

Comments on Verses 15-19

In response to Gabriel’s words, Daniel bowed to the ground and found himself
speechless. The vision (mareh) filled him with sorrow and his physical
strength was gone. Furthermore, his breath left him. Gabriel remedied the
situation by restoring Daniel’s speech and by strengthening him.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 295 of 379
Comments on Verses 20-21

Before further explaining the vision to Daniel in chapter 11, Gabriel informed
the prophet that the battle with Satan was not over:
“Then he said, "Do you know why I have come to you? And now I must return to
fight with the prince of Persia; and when I have gone forth, indeed the prince of
Greece will come. 21 But I will tell you what is noted in the Scripture of Truth. (No
one upholds me against these, except Michael your prince.”

This is what Gabriel was telling Daniel:
“I must now return to continue my struggle with the prince of Persia (Satan).
There is still work to do. I must still make sure that Artaxerxes gives his decree
on schedule to mark the beginning of the 70 weeks and the 2300 days.
Furthermore, when the kingdom of Persia has fallen, I must continue to do battle
with the prince of Greece (Satan in control of the Greek kingdom). However,
before I continue this battle, I will take the time to show you the events that will
transpire from this point on. These events have already been written in the
scripture of truth, that is, in God’s calendar and therefore their fulfillment is
absolutely certain.”

Putting it all Together

In closing, let us see how the prophecies of Daniel 8, 9, 10 and 11 fit together.
We will begin with chapter 8 and show how each succeeding chapter builds
upon the previous ones.
Daniel 8
The sweep of the chazon (vision) contains the following sequence of events:
    Persia (8:3-4, 20)
    Greece (8:3-7, 19-21)
    Four divisions of Greece (8:22)
    Pagan Rome (8:9-10)

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 296 of 379
    Papal Rome (8:11-12)
    The beginning of the cleansing of the sanctuary in 1844 (8:13-14)
Daniel 8 takes us only to the beginning of the investigative judgment in 1844
but tells us nothing about the ending of the judgment. In Daniel 8, Gabriel
just made a few remarks about events that would transpire after 1844 (8:19,
25). A voice told Gabriel to make Daniel understand the vision (mareh; 8:16)
who told Daniel that the vision (mareh) was for the time of the end (8:16). At
the conclusion of Daniel 8, the story tells us that Daniel was astonished at the
mareh and did not understand it. (8:27).
Daniel 9
When chapter 8 ended, Daniel was confused over the mareh so he studied
Jeremiah’s prophecy of the seventy years and prayed for understanding (9:1-
19). In response to Daniel’s prayer, actually, from the beginning of his
supplications (9:23) God sent Gabriel to give Daniel understanding of the
vision (mareh) of Daniel 8 (9:22-23). Gabriel explained that he was giving the
answer because Daniel was a man greatly beloved (9:23)
Gabriel then explained the first part of the prophecy of the 2300 days, that is
to say, the seventy weeks. In his explanation, Gabriel emphasized that this
portion of the 2300 days was for Daniel’s literal city and people (9:24). It is
significant that there is no reference to the time of the end in Daniel 9 because
this prophecy does not deal with end-time events but rather with the
probationary period for the Jewish theocracy. Notably, the seventy weeks
begin with the kingdom of Persia and end with Pagan Rome. Thus, the seventy
weeks begin with the same kingdom as Daniel 8 but only take us to the reign of
Pagan Rome when Jesus was anointed, crucified and Stephen stoned. However,
what about the period beyond Pagan Rome? We certainly would expect
Gabriel to come back at some point to explain the events beyond the period of
Pagan Rome, and he did!




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 297 of 379
Daniel 10
Daniel 10 begins with the statement that Daniel understood the mareh (10:1).
However, he wanted further light so he prayed to God (10:2-3, 12). In response
to Daniel’s prayer, nay, at the beginning of Daniel’s supplication (10:12) God
sent Gabriel to give the prophet understanding (10:14) because Daniel was
greatly beloved (10:11). The understanding that Gabriel came to give Daniel
includes the totality of the chazon but deals particularly with the latter days
(10:14).
Daniel 11
Gabriel began his explanation of the vision of Daniel 11 in the same place as he
began the explanation in Daniel 8. However, Daniel 11 greatly expands the
details of Daniel 8:
    Persia
    Greece
    The first king of Greece
    The four divisions of Greece
    Pagan Rome
    Papal Rome during its 1260 years of dominion (11:31-39).
Gabriel had already revealed this much in Daniel 8. However, as Gabriel very
briefly hinted in Daniel 8, there was more to Papal Rome than its 1260-year
career. Therefore, in Daniel 11 Gabriel took Daniel far beyond 1798 and 1844.
He explained that the Papacy would receive a mortal wound from France in
1798 (11:40), that the deadly wound would be healed (11:40-41), and that the
Papacy would yet exercise world dominion.
Additionally, he explained the shaking, the loud cry, the death decree, the
close of probation, the time of trouble, the deliverance of God’s people, the
special resurrection and the everlasting kingdom (Daniel 11:2-12:3).
Finally, Gabriel commanded Daniel to close and seal the book until the time of
the end (Daniel 12:4). Then, the book of Revelation further expands and


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 298 of 379
explains the contents of the little book upon its unsealing. Ellen White
explained:
“The things revealed to Daniel were afterward complemented by the revelation
made to John on the Isle of Patmos. These books should be carefully studied . . .
The book of Daniel is unsealed in the revelation to John, and carries us forward
to the last scenes of this earth’s history.” (Testimonies to Ministers, pp. 114-115)

Literal and Spiritual

As we look at the relationship between Daniel 10 and chapters 11 and 12, we
see that in chapter 10, Michael stood watch over Daniel’s literal people to save
them from their literal enemies as they returned from their literal captivity
in literal Babylon to rebuild the literal temple.
However, in the time of the end, Michael stands watch over Daniel’s spiritual
people who have returned from their spiritual captivity in spiritual Babylon
to rebuild the spiritual temple as spiritual enemies oppose them.
The end of the seventy weeks marks the transition point from the literal to
the spiritual. That is to say, at the center of Daniel 9 is Messiah’s work for literal
Israel while at the center of Daniel 10-11 is Messiah’s work for spiritual Israel.
Daniel 8:14 and Daniel 12:1 mark the beginning and ending points of the
investigative judgment. In Daniel 8:14 (also Daniel 7:13, 14) Jesus went in to
His Father to receive the kingdom and in Daniel 12:1 Jesus will stand up to
receive the kingdom. Thus, the literary structure of Daniel 8-12 reveals that
these chapters constitute a unified whole. They are, so to speak, a book within
a book.
Once final statement from the pen of Ellen White:
“The light that Daniel received direct from God was given especially for these
last days. The visions he saw by the banks of the Ulai [Daniel 8] and the Hiddekel
[Daniel 10-11], the great rivers of Shinar, are now in the process of fulfillment,
and all the events foretold will soon have come to pass.” The Seventh-day
Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 4, p. 1166. Bold is mine.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 299 of 379
Should we not be dedicating our time to the comprehension of these extremely
important chapters? Referring to God’s people in the very last remnant of time,
Gabriel promises:
“Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the wicked shall do
wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall
understand.” (Daniel 12:10).




                     Before moving on, study
           “The Flow of Revelation 8:12-15:4”
            chart on page 378 of this syllabus




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 300 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


          CHAPTER 13: THE SIXTH TRUMPET

Overview of the Sixth Trumpet

The sixth trumpet (Revelation 9:13-21) is a vivid description of the gathering
of the wicked by Satan’s three symbolic angels for the final battle against
God’s remnant (Revelation 16:13-16). This final gathering, which began in
1844, will intensify until the close of probation.
Immediately before the close of probation (when the seventh angel is about
to blow his trumpet) Satan will bring about a great counterfeit Pentecostal
revival (Revelation 13:13). The purpose of this revival will be to preempt and
counterfeit the genuine revival that will take place at the outpouring of the
latter rain. It will gather the wicked into one body.
Inspiration tells us that the False Prophet (apostate Protestantism) will even
make fire come down from heaven in the sight of men, a miracle that parodies
the falling of fire from heaven in the days of Elijah and the manifestation of
tongues of fire on the Day of Pentecost (see Revelation 13:13; GC p. 464). This
gathering of the wicked during the sixth trumpet (in Revelation 9:13-21) is
further amplified in Revelation 12:17, 13:11-18, 14:18-20 and 16:13-16.
Immediately after the conclusion of the gathering of the wicked during the sixth
trumpet (in Revelation 9:21), chapter 10 presents the flip side by going back

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 301 of 379
in time to describe the global gathering of the righteous by the message that
comes forth from the little book. We know that this judgment hour message,
which began with events surrounding the year 1844, is global because the
angel places one foot on the land and the other on the sea. This gathering of
the righteous by the message that comes from the little book is further
amplified in Revelation 14:6-12 (which is the ‘prophesying again’ of
Revelation 10:11).
In the midst of Satan’s counterfeit revival, God will bring about a genuine
revival of primitive godliness among His people. This message is known as the
message of the fourth angel who brings the final latter rain loud cry
(Revelation 18:1-4) revival of the Holy Spirit to God’s remnant (GC p. 464) The
gathering of both the righteous and the wicked is then further described in the
harvest scene of Revelation 14:14-20.

Structure of Revelation 9:13-14:20
Revelation 9:13-21           The gathering of the wicked from 1844 till the close of probation
Revelation 10:1-11:1         The gathering of the righteous from 1844 until the close of
                             probation
Revelation 12:17; 13:11-18   The gathering of the wicked before the close of probation
Revelation 14:6-12           The gathering of the righteous before the close of probation
Revelation 14:14-20          The wicked and righteous have been gathered inside and
                             outside of the symbolic city, spiritual Jerusalem


Ellen White and the Two Gatherings

Ellen White described the final gathering of both the righteous and the wicked
under the genuine and the counterfeit Pentecostal revivals:
“Notwithstanding the widespread declension of faith and piety, there are true
followers of Christ in these churches. Before the final visitation of God's judgments
upon the earth there will be among the people of the Lord such a revival of
primitive godliness as has not been witnessed since apostolic times. The Spirit
and power of God will be poured out upon His children. At that time, many will
separate themselves from those churches in which the love of this world has

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 302 of 379
supplanted love for God and His word. Many, both of ministers and people, will
gladly accept those great truths, which God has caused to be proclaimed at this
time to prepare a people for the Lord's second coming. The enemy of souls desires
to hinder this work; and before the time for such a movement shall come, he
will endeavor to prevent it by introducing a counterfeit. In those churches, which
he can bring under his deceptive power, he will make it appear that God's special
blessing is poured out; there will be manifest what is thought to be great
religious interest. Multitudes will exult that God is working marvelously for
them, when the work is that of another spirit. Under a religious guise, Satan will
seek to extend his influence over the Christian world.” GC p. 464
“Servants of God, with their faces lighted up and shining with holy consecration,
will hasten from place to place to proclaim the message from heaven. Thousands
of voices, all over the earth, will give the warning. Miracles will be wrought, the
sick will be healed, and signs and wonders will follow the believers. Satan also
works, with lying wonders, even bringing down fire from heaven in the sight
of men. Revelation 13:13. Thus the inhabitants of the earth will be brought to
take their stand.” GC p. 612

The Relevance of Revelation 16:12-16

We are to understand Revelation 16:12-16 as an enlargement and expansion
of the sixth trumpet in 9:13-21. There are two facts that link these two passages
together. The first is the reference to the River Euphrates. The second is the
reference evil spirits that are released to go the whole world to gather the
wicked against the remnant. These are the only passages in the book of
Revelation that mention the River Euphrates by name. However, we will notice
that Revelation 12:13-15 strongly alludes to it.
In order to understand the relationship between these two passages
(Revelation 9:13-21 and 16:12-16) we must go back to Revelation 12 to get a
little historical context. Revelation 12:13-15 tells us that the dragon spewed
water out of his mouth like a river with the intention of drowning God’s
faithful remnant during the 1260 years of papal persecution.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 303 of 379
“Now when the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the
woman who gave birth to the male Child. However, the woman was given two
wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where
she is nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the
serpent. So the serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the
woman that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood.” (Revelation
12:13-15)
Joshua 24:2, 3, 14, 15 refers to the Euphrates River as ‘the flood’
and Genesis 15:18 calls the Euphrates ‘the great River’ (compare Isaiah 8:7,
8; 17:12, 13; 59:19). Thus in Revelation 12 we are to understand the River
(with the definite article in the Greek) or flood that the dragon spews out his
mouth as the river Euphrates.
Although the Greek word translated ‘flood’ and ‘river’ in the New Testament are
the same, many contemporary Bible versions have seen the relationship
between ‘the flood’ and ‘the river’ and thus use them interchangeably. Notice
only one example of many, the English Standard Version (ESV):
Revelation 12:15
“The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep
her away with a flood.
The text tells us that ‘the earth’ (the territory of the United States) dried up the
flow of the persecuting waters of the River Euphrates by providing a refuge
for the persecuted woman:
“But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed
up the flood which the dragon had spewed out of his mouth.” (Revelation 12:16)
However, Revelation 12:17 explains that after persecution ceased for a
while, the dragon will once again persecute the remnant of the Seed of the
woman, in other words, the remnant of Jesus. This is another way of saying that
the dragon will once again spew the waters of the symbolic River Euphrates
out of his mouth.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 304 of 379
Revelation 9:13-21 and 16:13-16 describe the time when the waters of the
Euphrates which were dried up by the democratic principles of the United
States and the French Revolution, will begin flowing once again after the
deadly wound is healed. This will lead to oppressive enactments against God’s
people.
Revelation 17 further describes how the waters of the Euphrates will flow
once again under the dominion of the harlot who sits on many waters. As long
as the waters of the river flow, all goes well for the harlot who is full of the
blood of the saints (Revelation 17:6). However, immediately after describing
the meaning of the waters upon which the woman sits (Revelation 17:15), the
text tells us that the kings will turn on her (Revelation 17:16). In other words,
they will dry up on her (Revelation 16:12). This will be the final drying up of
the Euphrates River.
Ellen White graphically describes the events that will lead up to this climactic
moment:
“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness of
the night, falls upon the earth. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the
throne of God, spans the heavens and seems to encircle each praying company.
The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their mocking cries die away.
They forget the objects of their murderous rage. With fearful forebodings they
gaze upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its
overpowering brightness.” GC pp. 635, 636
A little later, Ellen White explains in The Great Controversy, what she meant by
the expression, “the angry multitudes are suddenly arrested”:
“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having
led them to destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation
upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they have
led their hearers to make void the law of God and to persecute those who would
keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers confess before the world their
work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury. "We are lost!" they cry,

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 305 of 379
"and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false shepherds.
The very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful
curses upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be
raised for their destruction. The swords that were to slay God's people are now
employed to destroy their enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed.” GC,
pp. 655, 656
Thus, Revelation 9:13-21 describes how wicked angels united with evil men
will be released at the symbolic Great River Euphrates to wreak global havoc
on humanity. Revelation 16:12 describes the moment when they will
eventually lose the support of the waters.

In summary

    Revelation 8:12; 12:13-15; 13:1-9: The persecuting waters of the
     symbolic River Euphrates flowed against God’s people for 1260 years.
    Revelation 9:1-11; 12:16; 13:3, 10: The persecuting waters dried up by
     the earth and by the French Revolution, which acquired many of its
     principles from the ‘American Experiment’.
    Revelation 9: 13-21; 12:17; 16:13-15; 17:1, 2, 15: The persecuting waters
     flow once again when the lamb-horned beast from the earth gives the
     sword back to the beast and heals its wound.
    Revelation 11:15-17; 16:12; 17:16: The persecuting waters dry up
     against Babylon for the final time when Jesus overcomes them and takes
     over the kingdoms of the world.
Comments on Revelation 16:12
“Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its
water was dried up, so that the way of the kings from the east might be
prepared.”
Note: We know for certain that the drying up of the Euphrates at the time of the
sixth plague occurs after the close of probationary time because the seven


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 306 of 379
bowls of God’s unmingled wrath will be poured out after probation closes (see
Revelation 15:5-8 and 16:1).
Comments on Revelation 16:13
“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the
dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.”
Note: It is vitally important to underline that the events of verses 13-16 occur
chronologically before those of verse 12. In other words, verse 12 describes
the sixth plague after the close of probationary time while verses 13-16
describe the events that led up to that climax during probationary time.
The ancient Egyptians considered the frog the God of immortality. The three
unclean spirits symbolize three symbolic fallen angels (see Luke 4:33 where
the evil spirits or angels that Jesus cast out are called demons). The three
unclean spirits come out of the mouth of the dragon, the beast and the false
prophet.
It has been common among Adventists to interpret the dragon in this verse as
spiritualism. However, spiritualism controls all three of these powers
because the evil spirits come out of the mouths of all three. These three fallen
angels (actually, these three angels represent Satan’s people who spread his
lies) will speak on behalf of the counterfeit trinity. The dragon (or civil
powers of the world according to Testimonies to Ministers, p. 39) is a parody of
God the Father. The beast counterfeits the ministry of the Jesus Christ the Son
and the false prophet counterfeits the work of the Holy Spirit.
Notice how Ellen White connects the false prophet of Revelation 13:13 with the
message of Revelation 16:13, 14:
“John, upon the Isle of Patmos, saw the things which should come upon the earth
in the last days. Revelation 13:13; 16:14: "And he doeth great wonders, so that
he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men." "For
they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of
the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of
God Almighty." Confrontation p. 89

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 307 of 379
Comments on Revelation 16:14
“For they are spirits of demons, performing signs which go out to the kings of
the earth and of the whole world to gather them to the battle of that great day
of God Almighty.”
Note: The purpose of the message of these three symbolic angels and the
signs they perform is to gather the kings of the earth and the whole world
against God and His people. One cannot help but see that under the sixth
trumpet the angels at the four corners at the River Euphrates are released,
and here the text tells us that the spirits of demons go to the kings of the earth
and the whole world.
Notice how Ellen White understood Revelation 16:13, 14:
“The Spirit of God is gradually withdrawing from the world. Satan is also
mustering his forces of evil, going forth "unto the kings of the earth and of the
whole world," to gather them under his banner, to be trained for "the battle of
that great day of God Almighty" [Revelation 16:14] LDE p. 249
“The line of distinction between professed Christians and the ungodly is now
hardly distinguishable. Church members love what the world loves and are ready
to join with them, and Satan determines to unite them in one body and thus
strengthen his cause by sweeping all into the ranks of spiritualism. Papists,
who boast of miracles as a certain sign of the true church, will be readily deceived
by this wonder-working power; and Protestants, having cast away the shield of
truth, will also be deluded. Papists, Protestants, and worldlings will alike
accept the form of godliness without the power, and they will see in this union a
grand movement for the conversion of the world and the ushering in of the long-
expected millennium.” GC p. 588, 589
“Already the inhabitants of the earth are marshalling under the leading of the
prince of darkness.” 8T p. 49
“Let us earnestly prepare for the conflict that is before us, for Satan's armies are
marshalling for the last great struggle.” 19MR p. 376


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 308 of 379
“In these perilous times, when the forces of evil are marshalling their hosts to
thwart, if possible, the efforts of God's servants in the earth, it is vitally necessary
for every laborer to walk humbly with God. Daily he is to maintain a close
connection with heavenly agencies.” North Pacific Union Gleaner, January 27,
1910
“Satan is marshalling his forces for the last great struggle [the Battle of
Armageddon], ‘to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.’ If we would be
true to God, we cannot escape the conflict. But we are not left in doubt as to the
issue. Beyond the smoke and heat [smoke, fire and brimstone] of the battle,
we behold ‘them that had gotten the victory’ standing on Mount Zion with the
Lamb.” RH July 18, 1882
“I was shown that a terrible condition of things is seen to exist in our world. The
angel of mercy is folding her wings, ready to depart. Already the Lord's
restraining power is being withdrawn from the earth, and the power of Satan is
working in the world to stir up the religious elements, under the training of
the great deceiver, to work with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in the
children of disobedience. Already the inhabitants of the earth are marshalling
under the leadings of the prince of darkness, and this is only the beginning of
the end. The law of God is made void. We see and hear of confusion, perplexities,
want and famine, earthquakes and floods; terrible outrages will be committed by
men; passion not reason bears sway. The wrath of God is upon the inhabitants of
a world that is fast becoming as corrupt as were the inhabitants of Sodom and
Gomorrah. Already fires and floods are destroying thousands of human beings
and the property that has been selfishly boarded by the oppression of the poor.”
8T, p. 49
“So it will be in the great final conflict of the controversy between righteousness
and sin. While new life and light and power are descending from on high upon the
disciples of Christ, a new life is springing up from beneath, and energizing the
agencies of Satan. Intensity is taking possession of every earthly element. With a
subtlety gained through centuries of conflict, the prince of evil works under a


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 309 of 379
disguise. He appears clothed as an angel of light, and multitudes are "giving heed
to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils." 1 Timothy 4:1.” DA p. 257
“The light given me has been very forcible that many would go out from us,
giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. The Lord desires that
every soul who claims to believe the truth shall have an intelligent knowledge of
what is truth. False prophets will arise and will deceive many. Everything is to be
shaken that can be shaken. Then does it not become everyone to understand the
reasons for our faith? In place of having so many sermons, there should be a more
close searching of the Word of God, opening the Scriptures text by text, and
searching for the strong evidences that sustain the fundamental doctrines that
have brought us where we now are, upon the platform of eternal truth.”
Evangelism pp. 363, 364
“He has power to bring before men the appearance of their departed friends. The
counterfeit is perfect; the familiar look, the words, the tone, are reproduced with
marvelous distinctness. Many are comforted with the assurance that their loved
ones are enjoying the bliss of heaven, and without suspicion of danger, they give
ear "to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils." GC p. 552
“Many will be confronted by the spirits of devils personating beloved relatives or
friends and declaring the most dangerous heresies. These visitants will appeal to
our tenderest sympathies and will work miracles to sustain their pretensions. We
must be prepared to withstand them with the Bible truth that the dead know not
anything and that, they who thus appear are the spirits of devils.” GC p. 560
“Satan has long been preparing for his final effort to deceive the world. The
foundation of his work was laid by the assurance given to Eve in Eden: "Ye shall
not surely die." "In the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye
shall be as gods, knowing good and evil." Genesis 3:4, 5. Little by little he has
prepared the way for his masterpiece of deception in the development of
spiritualism. He has not yet reached the full accomplishment of his designs; but
it will be reached in the last remnant of time. Says the prophet: "I saw three
unclean spirits like frogs; . . . they are the spirits of devils, working miracles,
which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 310 of 379
to the battle of that great day of God Almighty." Revelation 16:13, 14. Except those
who are kept by the power of God, through faith in His word, the whole world
will be swept into the ranks of this delusion. The people are fast being lulled to
a fatal security, to be awakened only by the outpouring of the wrath of God.” GC,
p. 561, 562
In Early Writings, p. 87 Ellen White describes the importance of understanding
the state of the dead:
“I saw that the saints must get a thorough understanding of present truth, which
they will be obliged to maintain from the Scriptures. They must understand the
state of the dead; for the spirits of devils will yet appear to them, professing to
be beloved friends and relatives, who will declare to them that the Sabbath has
been changed, also other unscriptural doctrines.’ EW, p. 87
Under the description of a train, she then goes on to explain the global nature
of the work of these spirits of devils in the last days before the close of
probation:
“I saw the rapidity with which this delusion was spreading. A train of cars was
shown me, going with the speed of lightning. The angel bade me look carefully. I
fixed my eyes upon the train. It seemed that the whole world was on board, that
there could not be one left. Said the angel: ‘They are binding in bundles ready to
burn.’ Then he showed me the conductor, who appeared like a stately, fair person,
whom all the passengers looked up to and reverenced. I was perplexed and asked
my attending angel who it was. He said, "It is Satan. He is the conductor in the
form of an angel of light. He has taken the world captive. They are given over to
strong delusions, to believe a lie, that they may be damned. This agent, the next
highest in order to him, is the engineer, and other of his agents are employed in
different offices as he may need them, and they are all going with lightning speed
to perdition." EW, pp. 88, 89
Ellen White then described another group that resisted and opposed this
overwhelming delusion:




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 311 of 379
“I asked the angel if there were none left. He bade me look in an opposite direction,
and I saw a little company traveling a narrow pathway. All seemed to be firmly
united, bound together by the truth, in bundles, or companies. Said the angel:
‘The third angel is binding, or sealing, them in bundles for the heavenly garner.’
This little company looked careworn, as if they had passed through severe trials
and conflicts. And it appeared as if the sun had just risen from behind a cloud and
shone upon their countenances, causing them to look triumphant, as if their
victories were nearly won.”
J. A. Seiss in his Exposition of the Book of Revelation makes the following
incisive remark about Revelation 16:13 that agrees fully with the concept of
Ellen G. White:
“Modern Spiritism, or so-called spiritualism, is only a revival of the same thing-a
branch of the same iniquity. There doubtless is some reality in it; and it is
confessedly a system of contact with the dead, whose spirits are invoked in
various forms and methods, to teach wisdom; to dictate faith, religion, and life;
to comfort and help in trouble and necessity; and to serve as saviors and as gods.
It is demon-worship brought to life again. It claims to have vast multitudes of
adherents, even among the baptized and nominally Christian. It is influencing
whole communities of men and women, who are prepared to commit themselves
body and soul, for time and eternity, into the care of these lying demon guides.
It has made inroads upon people of all classes, and is received by many as a
distinct and the only true religion. Its oracles are loud and hopeful in the
prediction, that it will soon enlist to itself the governments and reigning
classes of the whole world.” J. A. Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition of the Book
of Revelation, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006 by Biblesoft,
Incorporated
Comments on Revelation 16:15
"Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his
garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame."
Note: Revelation 3:18 uses the same language that appears in the context of
the Laodicean Message. However, we find the original sources for this verse in

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 312 of 379
the parables of Jesus in Matthew 24 and 25 and ultimately in Genesis 3:7, 15,
21.
It bears noting that it would do no good to give this warning to God’s people
during the period of the sixth plague after probation has closed because at
that time, probation will have closed and no one can change sides. In fact, verse
15 contains God’s warning to His people during probationary time to be faithful
in resisting the spirits of devils by not gathering with the kings of the earth
and the whole world.
Comments on Revelation 16:16
“And they gathered them together to the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon.”
Here is a summary of the literary structure of Revelation 16:12-16:
Revelation 16:12: Up to the moment of the fifth plague (the plague of
darkness), Babylon’s waters (the multitudes that support her) are ever
increasing with the intention of drowning God’s people but at the time of the
sixth plague, the waters suddenly dry up (withdraw their support) and
Babylon falls. The drying up of the waters then prepares the way for the
coming of the kings from the east (Jesus and His angels—the seventh plague
and trumpet).
Revelation 16:13-14: These verses take us back to probationary time when
the wicked swirling waters are ever increasing and gathering against God’s
people. Three evil angels with a counterfeit message go ‘to the kings of the earth
and the whole world’ to gather them for the final battle against God in the
person of His people.
Revelation 16:15: In this parenthetical statement, Jesus warns God’s people
to be on the right side when probation closes. When the gathering is over and
probation closes, there will only be two groups: Those who walk clothed and
have the Seal of God and those who walk naked and have the Mark of the Beast.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 313 of 379
Revelation 16:16: We must understand this verse as a continuation of verses
13 and 14. Let us read these two verses together skipping the parenthetical
verse 15:
“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon,
out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. 14 For they
are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the earth and
of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty
. . . 16 And they gathered them [the three evil angels] together to the place
called in Hebrew, Armageddon.”

Where is Armageddon located? The word Armageddon comes from two
Hebrew words: Har (mountain) and moed (congregation). The wicked are
actually gathered at the Mount of the Congregation. The consonants in Har-
maggedon are identical to the ones in Har-moed.
However, what about the ending –on? This is simply a way of ‘Greekisizing’ a
Hebrew word. The ending is a Greek ending adapted to a Hebrew word. The
same happens with the Hebrew word abad in Hebrew (Obadiah 12). This is
‘Greekisized’ in Revelation 9:11 as Abaddon. The ending –on is a Greek ending
to a Hebrew word.
For example, in English we have the word park. In Spanish, we speak about
parking our car we use the word ‘parkear’. The ending –ar provides a Spanish
ending to an English word.
In Daniel and Revelation God gathers His people to Mt. Zion where the spiritual
temple on earth is—the remnant church. In Revelation, there is a two-fold
gathering. God and His angels gather the remnant to symbolic Mt. Zion and
Satan and his angels gather the wicked around it to attempt to destroy it. In the
Old Testament, the word moed refers exclusively either to the congregation of
the tabernacle or the appointed times to celebrate religious observances. It is
a sanctuary term that refers to the congregation that meets at the temple on
Mt. Zion to worship the Lord. Notice the following texts:
    Revelation 14:1

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 314 of 379
      Revelation 14:19, 20
      Joel 2:32; 3:9-12
      Daniel 11:45
      Psalm 48:1, 2

Isaiah 14:12-14: At the beginning of the controversy in heaven, Satan wanted
to take over the heavenly Mount of the Congregation but Michael and His
angels defeated him. Therefore, at the end, Satan will attempt to conquer the
earthly mount—the Church—where God’s people have gathered to worship
the Lord.
Comments on Revelation 9:13-21
Verse 13:
“Then the sixth angel sounded: And I heard a voice from the four horns of the
golden altar which is before God. . .”
Note: The fact that the voice comes from the four horns of the golden altar of
incense is significant. The noted commentator, Albert Barnes, in agreement
with virtually all others, stated:
“When it is said that this was ‘before God,’ the meaning is, that it was directly
before or in front of the symbol of the divine presence in the most holy place.”
Albert Barnes, Electronic Database on Revelation 9:13.
It is obvious that God the Father is not the one who is speaking here from
the four horns because the altar is ‘before God’. The one who stands
ministering at the altar of incense before God, presenting the prayers of the
saints is none other than Jesus Christ Himself, the Mediator (1Timothy 2:5;
Hebrews 7:25).
The horns of the golden altar of sacrifice in the court represented God’s
mercy and protective power in times of crisis when life was in danger (see
1Kings 1:50, 51; 2:28) However, if Israel had not repented from her sin, the
horns were broken off (Amos 3:14, 15) and no mercy was extended. In the
daily service blood was rubbed on the horns of the altar of sacrifice (Leviticus


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 315 of 379
4:24, 25; Jeremiah 17:1) to indicate that the confessed sins of Israel had been
forgiven.
The altar in view in Revelation 9:13 is not the altar of sacrifice but rather the
altar of incense. As we have noted, the sixth trumpet relates to events that
transpire between 1844 and the close of probation. Significantly, blood was
rubbed on the horns of the altar of incense once a year for an atonement to
cleanse the sanctuary from the sins of Israel that had entered there
throughout the course of the year (Exodus 30:10; Leviticus 16:16-18).
Verse 14:
“. . . saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet: "Release the four angels who
are bound at the great river Euphrates.”
Note: Some have confused the four angels who hold the winds in Revelation
7:1-4 with the four angels that wreak havoc on mankind in the trumpets.
However, these four angels are not the good angels that hold back the winds
of strife in Revelation 7:1-4. These evil angels are waiting for God to release
them so that they can wreak havoc on humankind as we can see from the
succeeding context.
We are not to understand that only four angels cause the devastation. The
number four represents universality or global extent (see Ezekiel 7:2;
Matthew 24:31; Revelation 7:1, 2). In other words, Satan and his angels go to
the whole world to wreak havoc beginning in 1844 but especially intensifying
as the close of probation approaches.

The releasing of the winds in Revelation 7

Notably, God has three angels that gather the remnant on God’s side and Satan
has three angels who gather the wicked on his side. Furthermore, both God
and Satan have a ‘fourth angel’ that brings a final great ‘revival’ before the end.
As we have mentioned before, the only other time that the name ‘the great river
Euphrates’ appears in the book of Revelation is in chapter 16 and verse 12 so
there must be a relationship between the sixth trumpet and the sixth plague.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 316 of 379
Some have sought to find an application of the sixth trumpet to the phenomenal
growth of radical Islam because of the mention of the river Euphrates. The
question that we must ask is this: What hermeneutical principle allows these
expositors to say that the Euphrates in Revelation 9 is referring to a literal
geographical location in the Middle East while the Euphrates of Revelation 16
refers to the multitudes of the whole world under the control of spiritual
Babylon.
In short, why are we to understand the Euphrates in Revelation 16:12 as
symbolic while we understand the one in Revelation 9 as literal, when both of
them apply to the same period of the end time (sixth trumpet and sixth plague)?
An important prophetic principle is that after the cross, prophecy uses the same
terminology as the Old Testament but removes the geographical limitations.
Going on to another point. If these evil angels are released, then in the past they
must have been under restraint. What is it that restrained these angels from
manifesting their destructive power? Revelation 12:16 explains what
restrained them—the earth. The papacy received a deadly wound in 1798 and
the civil governments of the world have kept that wound in place. However,
when the beast from the earth gives civil power back to the papacy (the deadly
wound heals), then the restraint will be removed and Satan will manifest his
final display of power.
In this context, we need to understand the meaning of 2 Thessalonians 2.
While the civil power of the Roman Empire ruled, the papacy was under
restraint. However, when the civil power of Rome was removed by the
barbarian invasions, the papacy was allowed to wreak havoc during the Middle
Ages under the leadership of Satan, the dragon (Revelation 12:13-15).
Notice the interesting terminology Cardinal Henry Edward Manning uses to
describe the removal of the restraints on the papacy by the civil power:
“[When the barbarians invaded the Roman Empire], the pontiffs found
themselves alone, the sole fountains of order, peace, law, and safety. And from
the hour of this providential liberation, when, by a divine intervention, the
chains fell off from the hands of the successor of St. Peter, as once before from his

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 317 of 379
own, no sovereign has ever reigned in Rome except the Vicar of Jesus Christ.”
(Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of The Vicar of Jesus Christ,
Preface, pp. xxviii, xxix. London: Burns and Lambert, 1862). Bold is mine.
Manning added:
“It [the papacy] waited until such a time as God should break its bonds asunder,
and should liberate it from subjection to civil powers, and enthrone it in the
possession of a temporal sovereignty of its own.” Henry Edward Manning, The
Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ (London: Burns & Lambert, second
edition, 1862), pp. 11-13. Bold is mine
However, the French and American Revolutions placed the restraints on the
papacy once more. Democratic governments, led by the founding principles of
the United States, flourished in the western world. The papacy has been under
restraint for over 200 years because the civil powers of the world have not
allowed the papacy to recover its lost power. Notice the following telling words
from Malachi Martin, the Roman Catholic Jesuit priest:
“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, Rome had kept as strong a hand as
possible in each local community around the wide world. . . . By and large, and
admitting some exceptions, that had been the Roman view until two hundred
years of inactivity had been imposed upon the papacy by the major secular
powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity Today (November 21, 1986), p.
26.
However, when the lamb-horned beast restores the sword to this beast by
making an image to and of it, and commanding everyone to worship it and
receive its mark, the restraint placed on the papacy will be removed and she
will wreak havoc once again as she did in the past. Ellen White described what
remove the restraint from the papacy in the future:
“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome
be reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her
tyranny and persecution.” GC p. 564



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 318 of 379
The sixth trumpet is primarily pointing to this period when the papacy,
apostate Protestantism and the civil rulers of the world will unite to oppress
God’s people. However, the process of gathering these powers against God’s
people began in the events leading to 1844. It cannot be overstressed that
modern spiritualism had its origins with the Fox sisters around the same time.
Verse 15:
“So the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month
and year, were released to kill a third of mankind.”
Note: The number four in the Bible denotes universality or global extension.
As we have noted, Revelation 16:14 tells us that the spirits of devils will gather
the entire world in rebellion against God.
What is the meaning of the expression ‘the hour, the day, the month and the
year’? A careful study of Revelation indicates that the hour is ‘the hour of God’s
judgment’ (14:6, 7). Other parts of Scripture indicate that the day refers to the
10th day, the month is Tishri (the seventh month), and the year is 1844 (see
Leviticus 23:27; Daniel 8:14).
The Jamieson, Fausset and Brown Commentary explains:
“The article [teen], once only before all the periods implies that the hour in the
day, and the day in the month, and the month in the year, and the year itself, had
been definitely fixed by God.” Jamieson, Fausset, and Brown Commentary,
Electronic Database. Copyright © 1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft,
Incorporated
This verse is not describing the final and total destruction of the wicked after
the close of probation at the end of the time of trouble because this army of
demons is only able to destroy a third of humanity.
Verse 16:
“Now the number of the army of the horsemen was two hundred million
[literally: ‘twice ten thousand times ten thousand’]; I heard the number of
them. . .”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 319 of 379
Note: The number of the enemy is huge in comparison to the 144,000 of
Revelation 7:4. These are the only two verses in Revelation where John uses
the expression “I heard the number” so they must be related in some way.
Revelation 7:4 is transpiring during the sixth seal and Revelation 9:16 is
occurring during the period of the sixth trumpet. Notice how Ellen White
contrasts the number of God’s followers with those of Satan:
“The remnant church will be brought into great trial and distress. Those who keep
the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus, will feel the ire of the dragon
and his hosts. Satan numbers the world as his subjects; he has gained control
of the apostate churches; but here is a little company that are resisting his
supremacy. If he could blot them from the earth, his triumph would be
complete.” 9T p. 231
Revelation 18:1-4: the whole point of these verses is to call the 144,000 out of
Babylon so that they can join the remnant.
Verse 17:
“And thus I saw the horses in the vision: those who sat on them had breastplates
of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow and the heads of the horses were
like the heads of lions; and out of their mouths came fire, smoke, and brimstone.”
Note: This army clearly rises figuratively from hell. These are the same spirits
of demons in Revelation 16:14 that God releases to gather the kings of the
earth and the whole world against God’s people. They are the same demons
that the ‘fourth angel’s message’ refers to in Revelation 18:2, 3.
Clearly, we have here a portrait of Satan and the wicked that are always
described in the context of the lake of fire (Psalm 11:6; Ezekiel 38:22;
Revelation 14:10; 19:20; 20:10; 21:8). The fire and smoke coming out of the
mouths of the horses reminds us of the story of Leviathan in the book of Job
where he has smoke and fire come from His mouth (Job 41:19-21, 31-34).
Elsewhere, the Bible identifies Leviathan as the dragon, the ancient serpent, the
devil and Satan (Isaiah 27:1; Revelation 12:7-9).



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 320 of 379
Verse 18:
“By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed — by the fire and the
smoke and the brimstone which came out of their mouths.”
Note: Notice that what comes out of the mouth is what kills the wicked. In the
book of Revelation, fire, brimstone and smoke relate to those who worship the
beast and his image and receive the mark. Notably Revelation 16:13 explains
that the evil spirits come out of the mouth of the threefold union.
Verse 19:
“For their power is in their mouth and in their tails for their tails are like
serpents, having heads; and with them they do harm.”
Note: The horses have mouths like lions. Elsewhere in the Bible Babylon is
portrayed as a devouring lion (Daniel 7:2) as is its king, Nebuchadnezzar
(Jeremiah 4:7) and Satan is described as a ravenous lion seeking whom he may
devour (James 5:8).
Revelation 16:13, 14 clarifies that the false doctrines of the three counterfeit
angels come out of the mouth and they gather the wicked for the final battle
against God. The tail is a symbol of lies (Revelation 12:3-4; John 8:44; Isaiah
9:14). Notice that the mouth is in the tail.
Verse 20:
“But the rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of
the works of their hands, that they should not worship demons [Revelation 18:2,
3], and idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood, which can neither see nor hear
nor walk.”
Note: The expression ‘idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood, which can
neither see nor hear nor walk’ comes almost verbatim from Daniel 5:23. Daniel
5 describes the fall of Babylon when the Euphrates dried up. Thus, this verse
links three passages: The fall of Babylon in Daniel 5, the drying up of the
Euphrates in Revelation 16:12 and the sixth trumpet of Revelation 9:20.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 321 of 379
Verse 21:
“And they did not repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual
immorality or their thefts.”
Note:
    Revelation 17:6; 18:20, 24 describes Babylon as a murderer of God’s
     people.
    Revelation 18:23 refers to the sorceries of Babylon as one of the reasons
     for her fall.
    Revelation 17:2 portrays the adultery or fornication of the harlot with
     the kings of the earth.
    Revelation 18:10-13 describes this system as greedy and enslaving,
     stealing from the poor and favoring the rich. James 5:1-8 describes the
     greediness that steals from the poor.

Summary of the Sixth Trumpet

Since 1844, both armies have been in the process of being gathered. God’s
three angels have gathered the righteous while Satan’s three angels have
gathered the wicked. The sixth trumpet in Revelation 9:13-21 describes the
gathering of the wicked for battle while Revelation 10 describes the gathering
of the righteous on God’s side.
The only three places in Revelation where the word ‘demons’ appears is in
Revelation 16:14; 9:20 and 18:1-5. Furthermore, the only places where the
great river Euphrates appears is Revelation 9 and Revelation 16. Therefore, we
know that there is a link between these two passages.
Some choice Ellen G. White comments:
“Satan has long been preparing for his final effort to deceive the world. The
foundation of his work was laid by the assurance given to Eve in Eden: "Ye shall
not surely die." "In the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye
shall be as gods, knowing good and evil." Genesis 3:4, 5. Little by little he has
prepared the way for his masterpiece of deception in the development of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 322 of 379
spiritualism. He has not yet reached the full accomplishment of his designs; but it
will be reached in the last remnant of time. Says the prophet: "I saw three unclean
spirits like frogs; . . . they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth
unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of
that great day of God Almighty." Revelation 16:13, 14. Except those who are kept
by the power of God, through faith in His word, the whole world will be swept
into the ranks of this delusion.” DD, p. 24
“Fearful sights of a supernatural character will soon be revealed in the heavens,
in token of the power of miracle-working demons. The spirits of devils will go
forth to the kings of the earth and to the whole world, to fasten them in
deception, and urge them on to unite with Satan in his last struggle against
the government of heaven. By these agencies, rulers and subjects will be alike
deceived. Persons will arise pretending to be Christ Himself, and claiming the title
and worship which belong to the world's Redeemer. They will perform wonderful
miracles of healing and will profess to have revelations from heaven contradicting
the testimony of the Scriptures.” DD, p. 41
“This scripture points forward to a time when the announcement of the fall of
Babylon, as made by the second angel of Revelation 14 (verse 8), is to be repeated,
with the additional mention of the corruptions which have been entering the
various organizations that constitute Babylon, since that message was first
given, in the summer of 1844. A terrible condition of the religious world is
here described. With every rejection of truth the minds of the people will become
darker, their hearts more stubborn, until they are entrenched in an infidel
hardihood. In defiance of the warnings which God has given, they will continue
to trample upon one of the precepts of the Decalogue, until they are led to
persecute those who hold it sacred. Christ is set at nought in the contempt placed
upon His word and His people. As the teachings of spiritualism are accepted by
the churches, the restraint imposed upon the carnal heart is removed [the
evil angels are released], and the profession of religion will become a cloak to
conceal the basest iniquity. A belief in spiritual manifestations opens the door
to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, and thus the influence of evil angels
will be felt in the churches.” GC pp. 603, 604

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 323 of 379
“Spiritualism is about to take the world captive. There are many who think that
Spiritualism is upheld through trickery and imposture; but this is far from the
truth. Superhuman power is working in a variety of ways, and few have any idea
as to what will be the manifestations of Spiritualism in the future. The foundation
for the success of Spiritualism has been laid in the assertions that have been made
from the pulpits of our land. The ministers have proclaimed, as Bible
doctrines, falsehoods that have originated from the arch-deceiver. The
doctrine of consciousness after death, of the spirits of the dead being in
communion with the living, has no foundation in the Scriptures, and yet this
theory is affirmed as truth. Through this false doctrine the way has been opened
for the spirits of devils to deceive the people in representing themselves as the
dead. Satanic agencies personate the dead, and thus bring souls into captivity.
Satan has a religion; he has a synagogue and devout worshipers. To swell the
ranks of his devotees he uses all manner of deception.” ST May 28, 1894
“Four mighty angels hold back the powers of this earth till the servants of God
are sealed in their conflict, but they are held in check by the angels. When this
restraining power is removed there will come a time of trouble and anguish.
Deadly instruments of warfare will be invented. Vessels with their living cargo will
be entombed in the great deep. All who have not the spirit of truth will unite under
the leadership of satanic agencies, but they are to be kept under control till the
time shall come for the great battle of Armageddon.” LDE p. 238
“We need to study the pouring out of the seventh vial [Revelation 16:17-21:
Post-probationary]. The powers of evil will not yield up the conflict without a
struggle. However, Providence has a part to act in the battle of Armageddon.
When the earth is lighted with the glory of the angel of Revelation eighteen
[probationary], the religious elements, good and evil, will awake from
slumber, and the armies of the living God will take the field.” LDE p. 251
“The battle of Armageddon is soon to be fought. He on whose vesture is written
the name, King of kings and Lord of lords, leads forth the armies of heaven on
white horses, clothed in fine linen, clean and white [Revelation 19:11-16].” LDE
p. 251


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 324 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


       CHAPTER 14: THE SEVENTH TRUMPET

Revelation 11:15-17
“Then the seventh angel sounded: And there were loud voices in heaven, saying:
"The kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His
Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever!" 16 And the twenty-four elders who sat
before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshiped God, 17 saying: "We
give You thanks, O Lord God Almighty, the One who is and who was and who is to
come, because You have taken Your great power and reigned.”
Probation closes when the seventh trumpet is about to sound. At that
moment, Jesus will receive the kingdom from his Father when the judgment
concludes. Then the time of trouble will ensue followed by the blowing of the
seventh trumpet when Jesus comes to take His people home.
“About His coming cluster the glories of that "restitution of all things, which God
hath spoken by the mouth of all His holy prophets since the world began." Acts
3:21. Then the long-continued rule of evil shall be broken; "the kingdoms of this
world" will become "the kingdoms of our Lord, and of His Christ; and He shall
reign for ever and ever." Revelation 11:15.” GC, p. 301




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 325 of 379
The Jamieson, Fausset and Brown Commentary is on target:
“The seventh trumpet, like the seventh seal and seventh vial, being the
consummation, is accompanied differently from the preceding six: not the
consequences on earth, but those IN HEAVEN, are described, the great voices and
thanksgiving of the 24 elders in heaven, as the half-hour's silence in heaven at
the seventh seal, and the voice out of the temple in heaven, ‘It is done,’ at the
seventh vial.
“Thus, the seven seals, seven trumpets, and seven vials, are not consecutive, but
parallel, ending in the same consummation. They, from distinct stand-points,
unfold God's plans for bringing about the grand end, under three aspects,
mutually complementing each other.” Comment from Jamieson, Fausset and
Brown on Revelation 11:19
We can be certain that the releasing of the four angels under the sixth
trumpet takes place during probationary time. We know this because
probation will only close when the mystery of God is finished just before the
sounding of the seventh trumpet. This means that the releasing of the four
angels in the sixth trumpet is not the same thing as releasing the four winds
of Revelation 7. When the angels of Revelation 7 release the winds probation
has closed and mayhem ensues. Notice the following quotations from Ellen
White:
“Winds are a symbol of strife. The four winds of heaven striving upon the great
sea represent the terrible scenes of conquest and revolution by which kingdoms
have attained to power.” GC, p. 439
“I saw that the four angels would hold the four winds until Jesus' work was done
in the sanctuary, and then will come the seven last plagues.” EW, p. 36
“As yet the four winds are held until the servants of God shall be sealed in their
foreheads. Then the powers of earth will marshal their forces for the last great
battle.” 6T, p. 14.
“The restraining Spirit of God is even now being withdrawn from the world.
Hurricanes, storms, tempests, fire and flood, disasters by sea and land, follow

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 326 of 379
each other in quick succession. Science seeks to explain all these. The signs
thickening around us, telling of the near approach of the Son of God, are
attributed to any other than the true cause. Men cannot discern the sentinel
angels restraining the four winds that they shall not blow until the servants of
God are sealed; but when God shall bid His angels loose the winds, there shall
be such a scene of strife as no pen can picture.” 6T, p. 408.
“We feel depressed, greatly depressed, as we see the world and its wickedness.
The professed Christian world is enveloped in the darkness that covers the earth.
We sigh and cry for the abominations that are done in the land. Why is it that all
this wickedness does not break forth in decided violence against
righteousness and truth? It is because the four angels are holding the four winds
that they shall not blow upon the earth. But human passions are reaching a high
pass, and the Spirit of the Lord is being withdrawn from the earth. Were it not
that God has commanded angelic agencies to control the satanic agencies that
are seeking to break loose and to destroy, there would be no hope. But the winds
are to be held until the servants of God are sealed in their foreheads. . . .” HP p.
96
“Four mighty angels are still holding the four winds of the earth. Terrible
destruction is forbidden to come in full. The ... winds will be the stirring up of the
nations to one deadly combat, while the angels hold the four winds, forbidding
the terrible power of Satan to be exercised in its fury until the servants of God
are sealed in their foreheads.” Maranatha, p. 175
“Just before we entered it [the time of trouble], we all received the seal of the
living God. Then I saw the four angels cease to hold the four winds. And I saw
famine, pestilence and sword, nation rose against nation, and the whole world
was in confusion.” Mar 243
“Angels are holding the four winds, which are represented as an angry horse
seeking to break loose and rush over the face of the whole earth, bearing
destruction and death in its path. ML p. 308
When the angels are released in the sixth trumpet, probation has not closed
because probation does not close until the seventh angel is about to sound at

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 327 of 379
    the very end of the sixth trumpet. This is a vital point. The whole scene of the
    sixth trumpet takes place during probationary time, as does Revelation 16:14.
    Final Remarks
    We must link Revelation 17:14 with Revelation 19:11ff where Jesus bears
    the title ‘KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS. This means that Revelation
    11:15 is repeated again in Revelation 17:14 and Revelation 19:16. This proves
    that we cannot read Revelation as a continuous flow but rather full of
    recapitulations and repetitions.
    Revelation 11:17 actually concludes the seventh trumpet. Revelation 11:18
    then introduces and summarizes the main events of the rest of the book. This
    verse contains five key points of time that form the structure of the rest of the
    book:
Rev Revelation 12-14        The Nations were angry
    Revelation 15-19            Your wrath has come
    Revelation 20:4, 11, 12     The time to judge the dead
    Revelation 19:11-21; 22:12 The time to reward your servants
    Revelation 20:14, 15        Destroy those who destroy the earth




       Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                    by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 328 of 379
         “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
            A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                         BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


CHAPTER 15: THE MARRIAGE, THE MARRIAGE
  SUPPER AND POSSESSING THE KINGDOM

Wedding Customs in Biblical Times

   The betrothal or engagement between the bride and the groom took
    place at the home of the bride’s father where the groom paid the dowry.
   The groom then returned to his father’s house to prepare the home
    where he would live with his wife after the marriage.
   During the period of preparation, the bride would remain in her father’s
    house preparing for the wedding.
   When the place and the bride were ready, the bridegroom would return
    to the bride’s home to take her to his father’s house where the wedding
    ceremony took place.
   The groom sent a special garment to the guests that gave them the right
    to attend the wedding.




  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 329 of 379
Scripture and the Wedding Customs

Matthew 25:1-13
Jesus instructed His individual followers to be ready to go with Him into the
wedding chamber as invited guests.
Matthew 22:1-14
The Groom’s Father sent out an invitation to the wedding with a special
garment for each guest. Once in the wedding chamber, the Father examined
the garment of the guests to determine if each was wearing the wedding
garment.
Those who did not have the garment were cast out of the wedding chamber
into outer darkness where they would wail and gnash their teeth for not
having been able to remain in the wedding hall (Matthew 8:12; 13:41, 42;
13:47-50; 22:13, 14; 24:51; 25:30; Luke 13:25-30).
Once the Father of the groom had examined the garments of the guests and the
unworthy guests were cast out of the wedding chamber into outer darkness,
the wedding took place.
Revelation 19:9
An angel pronounced a blessing upon the invited guests to the marriage
supper of the Lamb. The bride (the church as a whole) was ready, clothed in
fine linen, bright and pure which are the righteous deeds of the saints, an
indication that they were judged by their works that were written in the
books.
Luke 12:35-37
The Bible makes it clear that the wedding takes place in heaven before Jesus
returns for the second time. However, many modern versions (for example, the
NIV and the ESV), leave the impression that Jesus will come to earth to gather
his people to Himself after the marriage feast has ended. These translations
are confusing because other texts clearly affirm that Jesus will literally sit with


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 330 of 379
his people at the supper table in His kingdom after He has come for them (see
Matthew 8:11, 12).
So the question is this, when is the marriage supper? Does it take place before
Jesus comes for his own or after?
We must look at all of Scripture in order to get clear picture of the chronology:
Daniel 7:13, 14: In 1844 Jesus moved from the holy to the most holy place of
the heavenly sanctuary to receive the kingdom from His Father.
Luke 19:11, 12: Jesus informed his followers that he was going to a far
country to receive the kingdom after which He would return to this earth:
“Now as they heard these things, He spoke another parable, because He was near
Jerusalem and because they thought the kingdom of God would appear
immediately. Therefore He said: "A certain nobleman went into a far country to
receive for himself a kingdom and to return.”
Because the Lamb’s bride is the New Jerusalem, the capital and symbol of His
kingdom, we can know for sure that receiving the kingdom from His Father and
marrying his bride are two complementary ways of saying the same thing. Jesus
marries His bride and receives the kingdom before His second coming. Ellen
White makes this perceptive statement:
 [When probation closes] “Every case had been decided for life or death. While
Jesus had been ministering in the sanctuary, the judgment had been going on for
the righteous dead, and then for the righteous living. Christ had received His
kingdom, having made the atonement for His people and blotted out their sins.
The subjects of the kingdom were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was
consummated. And the kingdom, and the greatness of the kingdom under the
whole heaven, was given to Jesus and the heirs of salvation, and Jesus was to reign
as King of kings and Lord of lords.” EW, p. 280
In 2 Corinthians 11:2 Paul stated that he had engaged the church to Christ as
a pure bride and in Ephesians 5:25-27 he wrote that Christ died to make it
possible for the church/bride to be without spot or blemish.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 331 of 379
The Composite Picture

In 1844 Jesus came to the Father to begin the process that would eventually
make it possible for Him to receive the kingdom or to marry His bride—the
church as a whole (Matthew 25:1-13).
Since 1844, the King has been examining the garments of each person
individually who has claimed Jesus as Savior. These persons, as individuals,
are the invited guests to the wedding. However, the people as a whole—the
faithful church in its entirety—are Christ’s betrothed bride or kingdom.
“The parable of the wedding garment opens before us a lesson of the highest
consequence. By the marriage is represented the union of humanity with
divinity; the wedding garment represents the character which all must possess
who shall be accounted fit guests for the wedding.” COL, p. 307.

Not everyone who has claimed Jesus, as Savior has been true and faithful.
Those who are found without a wedding garment in the judgment will be
removed from the book of life (Matthew 22:1-14) and when the last case has
been examined, the bride/kingdom is purged, pure and faithful (Revelation
19:7-9; Ephesians 5:25-27).
The bride (the church in its entirety) has now made herself ready for Him and
Jesus will marry her (He takes over the kingdom; Daniel 7:13, 14; Luke 19:11,
12). The moment that Jesus receives the kingdom, the door to the wedding
(probation) chamber is shut and any guests who arrive late are found
unprepared and unworthy and those who are in the wedding chamber without
the garment will be cast out (Matthew 25:1-14; Revelation 22:11).
After the wedding in heaven is finished, a terrible time of trouble ensues for
the bride (the church) and Jesus returns to the earth to rescue her from
certain annihilation (Daniel 11:44-12:3).
Jesus gathers his kingdom/bride and takes them to the Father’s house in
heaven. When the faithful arrive in heaven, they sit down with Jesus to eat the
marriage supper—this is the wedding reception (Revelation 19:9; Matthew


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 332 of 379
8:11, 12).
“To the mind of Jesus the gladness of the wedding festivities pointed forward to
the rejoicing of that day when He shall bring home His bride to the Father's
house, and the redeemed with the Redeemer shall sit down to the marriage
supper of the Lamb.” The Adventist Home, p. 503
Luke 12:35-37
"Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; and you yourselves be like men
who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding, that when he
comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. Blessed are those servants
whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly, I say to you that
he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come and serve
them.”
“Soon we heard His lovely voice again, saying, "Come, My people, you have come
out of great tribulation, and done My will; suffered for Me; come in to supper,
for I will gird Myself, and serve you." We shouted, "Alleluia! glory!" and entered
into the city. And I saw a table of pure silver; it was many miles in length, yet
our eyes could extend over it. I saw the fruit of the tree of life, the manna, almonds,
figs, pomegranates, grapes, and many other kinds of fruit.” Counsels to the Church,
p. 36

Solving a Problem

However, we need to clarify one more thing. Let us compare Luke 12:35-37 in
the NKJV with the NIV:
NKJV:
"Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; and you yourselves be like men
who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding, that when he
comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. Blessed are those servants
whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly, I say to you that
he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come and serve them.”



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 333 of 379
NIV:
"Be dressed ready for service and keep your lamps burning, like men waiting for
their master to return from a wedding banquet, so that when he comes and
knocks they can immediately open the door for him. It will be good for those
servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. I tell you the truth,
he will dress himself to serve, will have them recline at the table and will come
and wait on them.”
It will be noticed that in the NIV (and many other contemporary versions), Jesus
returns to the earth from the heavenly wedding banquet to gather his waiting
people. In other words, the wedding banquet takes place before Jesus comes to
take His people to heaven. However, in the NKJV Jesus returns from the
wedding (not the banquet) to gather His people. Which translation makes
more sense and fits best with all the Biblical evidence?
In Greek the words used for marriage (gamos and gamoi) include both the
wedding and the wedding feast. In our times, we make a marked distinction
between the wedding and the reception. However, in biblical times the
covenant vow took very little time while the feast was a major community
event that would last hours and even days or weeks. Thus, the wedding was
simply a brief ceremony with a celebration that was a big feast!
The Greek language did not have a word that distinguishes between the
wedding and the feast as we do today (such as wedding and reception)
because people perceived both to be phases of the same event. Although the
Greeks did not have a common word for the vow as distinguished from the
feast, they did have a word for the feast alone when that is what they wished to
emphasize. That word appears in Revelation 19:9 where the saints are invited
to the wedding feast.

Therefore, the process is as follows:
    Jesus will marry his kingdom/church in heaven. This is vow portion of
     the marriage ceremony.
    Jesus will then return from the wedding in heaven to take his waiting

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 334 of 379
      people on earth to the heavenly feast/reception.

Note: The bride is the church or kingdom as a whole while the church
members as individuals are the guests (clearly shown in Matthew 22). The
bride/kingdom is the New Jerusalem, the symbol of Christ’s entire human
kingdom (Revelation 21:9, 10). Individual members of the city are not the city
itself but the residents who have homes there (John 14:1-3)
Ellen White understood this very clearly:
“I saw angels hurrying to and fro in heaven. An angel with a writer's inkhorn by
his side returned from the earth and reported to Jesus that his work was done and
the saints were numbered and sealed. Then I saw Jesus, who had been ministering
before the ark containing the Ten Commandments, throw down the censer. He
raised His hands, and with a loud voice said, ‘It is done.’ Then all the angelic host
laid off their crowns as Jesus made the solemn declaration, ‘He that is unjust, let
him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is
righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.’
Every case had been decided for life or death. While Jesus had been ministering
in the sanctuary, the judgment had been going on for the righteous dead, and then
for the righteous living. Christ had received His kingdom, having made the
atonement for His people and blotted out their sins. The subjects of the kingdom
were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was consummated. And the kingdom,
and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, was given to Jesus
and the heirs of salvation, and Jesus was to reign as King of kings and Lord of
lords.” EW, pp. 279, 280
“The marriage represents the reception by Christ of His kingdom. The Holy City,
the New Jerusalem, which is the capital and representative of the kingdom, is
called ‘the bride, the Lamb's wife.’ Said the angel to John: ‘Come hither, I will show
thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.’ ‘He carried me away in the spirit,’ says the
prophet, ‘and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of
heaven from God’ Revelation 21:9, 10. Clearly, then, the bride represents the Holy
City, and the virgins that go out to meet the bridegroom are a symbol of the
church. In the Revelation, the people of God are said to be the guests at the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 335 of 379
marriage supper Revelation 19:9. If guests, they cannot be represented also as
the bride. Christ, as stated by the prophet Daniel, will receive from the Ancient of
Days in heaven, ‘dominion, and glory, and a kingdom;’ He will receive the New
Jerusalem, the capital of His kingdom, ‘prepared as a bride adorned for her
husband.’ Daniel 7:14; Revelation 21:2. Having received the kingdom, He will
come in His glory, as King of kings and Lord of lords, for the redemption of His
people, who are to ‘sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob,’ at His table in
His kingdom (Matthew 8:11; Luke 22:30), to partake of the marriage supper of
the Lamb.
‘The proclamation, ‘Behold, the Bridegroom cometh,’ in the summer of 1844, led
thousands to expect the immediate advent of the Lord. At the appointed time the
Bridegroom came, not to the earth, as the people expected, but to the Ancient
of Days in heaven, to the marriage, the reception of His kingdom. ‘They that
were ready went in with Him to the marriage: and the door was shut.’ They were
not to be present in person at the marriage; for it takes place in heaven, while
they are upon the earth. The followers of Christ are to ‘wait for their Lord, when
He will return from the wedding’ Luke 12:36. However, they are to understand
His work, and to follow Him by faith as He goes in before God. It is in this sense
that they are said to go in to the marriage.” GC, pp. 426, 427
Notice all the Biblical texts that Ellen White uses to explain the wedding and the
reception:
“In both the Old and the New Testament, the marriage relation is employed to
represent the tender and sacred union that exists between Christ and His people.
To the mind of Jesus the gladness of the wedding festivities pointed forward to the
rejoicing of that day when He shall bring home His bride [the kingdom in its
entirety] to the Father's house, and the redeemed with the Redeemer shall sit
down to the marriage supper of the Lamb. He says, ‘As the bridegroom rejoiceth
over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee.’ ‘Thou shalt no more be termed
Forsaken; . . . but thou shalt be called My Delight; . . . for the Lord delighteth in
thee.’ ‘He will rejoice over thee with joy; He will rest in His love, He will joy over
thee with singing’ Isaiah 62:5, 4, margin; Zephaniah 3:17. When the vision of
heavenly things was granted to John the apostle, he wrote: ‘I heard as it were the

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 336 of 379
voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of
mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Let
us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to Him: for the marriage of the Lamb is
come, and His wife hath made herself ready." "Blessed are they which are called
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. Revelation 19:6, 7, 9.” DA, p. 151




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 337 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 338 of 379
            “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
               A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                            BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


    CHAPTER 16: EXAMINING THE SUBJECTS OF
                 THE KINGDOM

In our present study, we will consider the biblical doctrine of the pre-Advent
investigative judgment. The books of Daniel and Revelation have much to say
about this subject. However, in the present study I would like to dwell on a parable
that Jesus told that we find in Matthew 22:1-14. Our study will reveal that this
parable contains many important details that help us understand the when,
where and how of the judgment. Let us begin our study by reading the passage:
“And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables and said: 2 "The kingdom
of heaven is like a certain king who arranged a marriage for his son, 3 and sent out
his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding; and they were not willing
to come. 4 Again, he sent out other servants, saying, 'Tell those who are invited,
"See, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and fatted cattle are killed, and all things
are ready. Come to the wedding."' 5 But they made light of it and went their ways,
one to his own farm, another to his business. 6 And the rest seized his servants,
treated them spitefully, and killed them. 7 But when the king heard about it, he was
furious. And he sent out his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned up
their city. 8 Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were
invited were not worthy. 9 Therefore go into the highways, and as many as you find,
invite to the wedding.' 10 So those servants went out into the highways and

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 339 of 379
gathered together all whom they found, both bad and good. And the wedding hall
was filled with guests. 11 "But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw a man
there who did not have on a wedding garment. 12 So he said to him, 'Friend, how
did you come in here without a wedding garment?' And he was speechless. 13 Then
the king said to the servants, 'Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him
into outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'” 14 "For many
are called, but few are chosen."

Verse 1

“And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables and said. . .”

Verse 2

"The kingdom of heaven is like a certain king [God the Father] who arranged a
marriage for his son [Jesus]. . .”

Verse 3

“. . . and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding and
they were not willing to come.”

Who are the servants that the King Sent Out?

John 1:6-7: John the Baptist was the first servant or messenger sent:
“There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 7 This man came for a
witness, to bear witness of the Light that all through him might believe.”
Matthew 10:5-7: Jesus sent the twelve disciples to invite guests to the wedding:
“These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them, saying: "Do not go into the way
[this is a key word that is translated ‘highways’ in verses 9, 10] of the Gentiles,
and do not enter a city of the Samaritans. 6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. 7 And as you go, preach, saying: 'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'”




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 340 of 379
Luke 10:1: Jesus sent out the seventy to invite the guests to the wedding:
“After these things the Lord appointed seventy others also, and sent them two by
two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to go.”
Note: God sent John, the twelve, and the seventy to invite the citizens of the Jewish
nation to the wedding. The invited guests to the future wedding rejected this first
invitation.

Verse 4

“Again, he sent out other servants saying, 'Tell those who are invited, "See, I have
prepared my dinner; my oxen and fatted cattle are killed, and all things are ready.
Come to the wedding. [Jesus had already been sacrificed at this point]."'
Note: The Father sent the second group of servants after sacrifice of Jesus. We
know this because the text tells us that the Father sent this second group of
servants to announce that the oxen and fatted cattle had been sacrificed.
The slaughter of animals in the sacrificial system represented the death of
Christ. At this point of time in the parable, we have moved from the time of [1]
John to the [2] call of the twelve to the [3] call of the seventy, to the [4] death of
Christ.
Isaiah 53:7
“He was oppressed and He was afflicted, yet He opened not His mouth; He was led as
a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before its shearers is silent, so He opened not
His mouth.”

Verses 5, 6

“But they made light of it and went their ways, one to his own farm another to his
business. 6 And the rest seized his servants, treated them spitefully, and killed
them. . .”




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 341 of 379
Matthew 23:34-35
“Therefore, indeed, I [will] send you prophets [Stephen], wise men [seven
deacons], and scribes [Paul]: some of them you will kill and crucify [James,
Peter], and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues [John, Peter, Paul,
Silas] and persecute from city to city [Paul].”
Note: Jesus spoke these words in Matthew 23:34-35 just a few days before His
death. Who were the additional prophets, wise men and scribes?
Peter prophesied to the Jews on the day of Pentecost and Stephen saw a vision
of Jesus in heaven as he preached his sermon before the Sanhedrin. Acts 7
describes the seven deacons as individuals full of wisdom and the apostle Paul
was a theologian or scribe. Herod had James killed with the sword and Peter was
crucified on an upside down cross. The Jewish leadership scourged Peter and
John in the synagogue and Saul of Tarsus persecuted Christians from city to city.
The Father sent many messengers to the Jews after Jesus died inviting them to
receive Jesus and accept the invitation to the future wedding but they refused the
invitation.
Acts 6:2, 3: The seven deacons were the wise men:
“Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said: "It is not
desirable that we should leave the word of God and serve tables. 3 Therefore,
brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy
Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.”
Acts 7:57-58: Stephen was the final prophet to the Jewish nation:
[Last prophet to Israel, he had a vision of Jesus in heaven] “Then they cried out
with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord; 58 and they
cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at
the feet of a young man named Saul.”
Acts 5:40-41: The Sanhedrin beat Peter and John in the synagogue:
“And they agreed with him and when they had called for the apostles and beaten
them they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 342 of 379
go. 41 So they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were
counted worthy to suffer shame for His name.”
Acts 12:1-4: Herod killed James with the sword:
[James the brother of Jesus killed] “Now about that time Herod the king
stretched out his hand to harass some from the church. 2 Then he killed James the
brother of John with the sword. 3 And because he saw that it pleased the Jews, he
proceeded further to seize Peter also. Now it was during the Days of Unleavened
Bread.”
John 21:18-19: By instigation of the Jews, the Romans crucified Peter on an
upside down cross:
“Most assuredly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and
walked where you wished; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands,
and another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish." 19 This He spoke,
signifying by what death he would glorify God.”
Acts 26:11: Saul of Tarsus persecuted God’s people from city to city:
[Paul persecuted in foreign cities like Damascus] “And I punished them often
in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly
enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.”

Verse 7

“But when the king [God the Father] heard about it, he was furious. And he sent
out his armies [Titus and the Roman legions], destroyed those murderers, and
burned up their city . . . [the destruction of Jerusalem in the year 70].”
Note: The armies are the Roman Legions and the city is Jerusalem. The parable
now moves forward to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans in AD 70.
Thus the parable began with John the Baptist in the spring of 27 AD and has
moved to the destruction of Jerusalem in the year 70 AD
Luke 19:41-44: The Romans destroyed Jerusalem because the city rejected the
invitation to the wedding:

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 343 of 379
“Now as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it, 42 saying, "If you had known,
even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace! But now
they are hidden from your eyes. 43 For days will come upon you when your enemies
will build an embankment around you, surround you and close you in on every side,
44 and level you, and your children within you, to the ground; and they will not

leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your
visitation."

Verse 8

“Then he said to his servants: 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited
[the first two times] were not worthy . . .”
Note: God gave two invitations to the Jewish nation to be guests at the future
wedding of Jesus. God gave one invitation before Jesus died on the cross and the
other after. The Jews slighted both invitations. The word ‘worthy’ is very
important at this point. Matthew 10:5, 6, 11-15 tells us that the lost sheep of the
house of Israel were the ones who were unworthy.
Matthew 10:5, 6, 11-15
“These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them, saying: "Do not go into the way
[same word as in verses 9, 10 translated ‘highways’] of the Gentiles, and do not
enter a city of the Samaritans. 6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel. 11 "Now whatever city or town you enter, inquire who in it is worthy, and
stay there till you go out. 12 And when you go into a household, greet it. 13 If the
household is worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your
peace return to you. 14 And whoever will not receive you nor hear your words, when
you depart from that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet. 15 Assuredly, I
say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day
of judgment than for that city.”




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 344 of 379
Verse 9

“Therefore go into the highways [the way of the Gentiles], and as many as you
find, invite to the wedding” [the wedding has not taken place when the gospel
goes to the Gentiles].
Note: The word ‘highways’ is significant at this point. If we remember, in Matthew
10:5, 6 Jesus instructed His disciples not to go in the way of the Samaritans or the
Gentiles. The gospel was to go first to Jerusalem and Judea and only later to
Samaria and the uttermost parts of the earth. The word ‘way’ or ‘highway’ thus
refers to taking the gospel beyond Jerusalem to the Gentiles.
Matthew 8:11-12: The sons of the kingdom are the Jews and those who come
from east and west are the Gentiles:
“And I say to you that many will come from east and west, and sit down with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. 12 But the sons of the
kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing
of teeth."
Luke 13:22-30
This passage expands upon Matthew 8:11, 12. Those who rejected the message
admit that they ate and drank in the presence of Jesus and that He taught in their
streets. According to Jesus, the message went first to the Jews yet they would be
last. On the other hand, the Gentiles who received the last call would be first.
“And He went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward
Jerusalem. 23 Then one said to Him, "Lord, are there few who are saved?" And He said
to them, 24 "Strive to enter through the narrow gate, for many, I say to you, will seek
to enter and will not be able. 25 When once the Master of the house has risen up and
shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock at the door, saying: 'Lord,
Lord, open for us,' and He will answer and say to you: 'I do not know you, where you
are from,' 26 then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in Your presence, and
You taught in our streets.' 27 But He will say, 'I tell you I do not know you, where
you are from. Depart from Me all you workers of iniquity.' 28 There will be weeping


     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 345 of 379
and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the
prophets in the kingdom of God, and yourselves thrust out. 29 They will come from
the east and the west, from the north and the south, and sit down in the kingdom
of God. 30 And indeed there are last [Gentiles preached to last] who will be first
[be present for the wedding], and there are first who will be last."
Shortly before His death, Jesus predicted that God would take the kingdom from
the Jewish nation and give it to the Gentiles:
Matthew 21:43-44
"Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to a
nation [ethnos] bearing the fruits of it.”
When the Jews rejected the message of Paul and Barnabas in Antioch, they were
turning to the Gentiles:
Acts 13:47, 48
“Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said: "It was necessary that the word of
God should be spoken to you first; but since you reject it, and judge yourselves
unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles [ethnos]. 47 For so the
Lord has commanded us: 'I have set you as a light to the Gentiles that you should
be for salvation to the ends of the earth [same expression in Acts 1:8; also,
Matthew 24:14: ‘All the world as a witness to all the nations’].'"

Verse 10

“So those servants went out into the highways [same word translated ‘way’ in
Matthew 10:5 where Jesus says: ‘don’t go the ‘way’ of the Gentiles] and
gathered together all whom they found, both bad and good and the wedding hall
[at this point the wedding has not yet taken place but the guests that accepted
the invitation are there with the garments that the bridegroom has provided
beforehand] was filled with guests. . .”
Jesus referred to his followers as fishermen. The casting of the net is the
preaching of the gospel and the boat is the church. The preaching of the gospel


     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 346 of 379
gathers, not only true followers of Jesus but also hypocrites. The purpose of the
investigative judgment is to distinguish between those who have the power of
godliness and those who have only the appearance.
Matthew 13:47-50
"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet that was cast into the sea and
gathered some of every kind, 48 which, when it was full, they drew to shore; and they
sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away. 49 So it will
be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth, separate the wicked from
among the just, 50 and cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and
gnashing of teeth."
Note: When I was a child, my parents used to take us on vacation to a pristine
island state in Venezuela. One of our favorite activities was to get up early in the
morning to watch the fishermen bring in their nets. In the nets were all sorts of
fish, good and bad. When they arrived at the shore, they would separate the good
fish from the bad. The good they would put in baskets to take to the market place
and the bad they threw in baskets to be discarded.
When the fishermen had finished their task, and the net had gathered all the fish,
good and bad, into the boat, it was time to separate the good fish from the bad.
The fishing analogy is another way of illustrating the investigative pre-Advent
judgment that transpires in heaven before the second coming. After the preaching
of the gospel is finished and all the souls have joined the church, the heavenly
judgment will separate the genuine believers from the counterfeit. In fact, we will
see that the wedding takes place in heaven and God’s people are present there
only by faith.

Verse 11

"But when the king came in to see [theaomai: ‘examine’] the guests [here is the
examination of the garments of the invitees to the wedding], he saw a man
there who did not have on a wedding garment [this examination of the wedding
garments cannot take place after the second coming because no one will


     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 347 of 379
sneak into heaven. Actually, God examines the records in the books to
determine if the person has on the wedding garment].

The translation ‘see’ is weak. The Exegetical Dictionary of the New Testament
explains that in the New Testament this word ‘see’.
‘. . . regularly connotes intensive, thorough, lingering, astonished, reflective,
comprehending observation.’

Ellen White describes the sanctuary context of the heavenly examination:
"As the sins of the people were anciently transferred, in figure, to the earthly
sanctuary by the blood of the sin-offering, so our sins are, in fact, transferred to the
heavenly sanctuary by the blood of Christ. Furthermore, as the typical cleansing of
the earthly was accomplished by the removal of the sins by which it had been
polluted, so the actual cleansing of the heavenly is to be accomplished by the
removal, or blotting out, of the sins that are there recorded. This necessitates an
examination of the books of record to determine who, through repentance of sin and
faith in Christ, are entitled to the benefits of his atonement. The cleansing of the
sanctuary therefore involves a work of investigative Judgment. This work must be
performed prior to the coming of Christ to redeem his people; for when he comes,
his reward is with him to give to every man according to his works." [REV. 22:12.]
4SP, p. 266
All Believers Examined
“The guests at the gospel feast are those who profess to serve God, those whose
names are written in the book of life. But not all who profess to be Christians are
true disciples. Before the final reward is given, it must be decided who are fitted to
share the inheritance of the righteous. This decision must be made prior to the
second coming of Christ in the clouds of heaven; for when He comes, His reward is
with Him, "to give every man according as his work shall be." Rev. 22:12.” COL, p.
310:
Note: The Bible is clear that all who have professed the name of Jesus must appear
before the judgment seat of Christ. However, they will not appear there in person
but rather by their records in the books.

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 348 of 379
2 Corinthians 5:10
We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ to render an account for
what we have done in the body.
Matthew 12:34-37
Our words will justify or condemn us.
Ecclesiastes 12:14
God will bring every work into judgment along with every secret thing.
Revelation 22:12
When Jesus comes, He will bring His reward to give to everyone according to his
work.

The Hypocrites

Matthew 7:21-23
Many will claim the name of Jesus and He will say that He does not know them.
Matthew 13:47-50
The gospel net gathers both good and bad fish.
2 Corinthians 11:13-15
In the church, there are ministers of unrighteousness who are garbed as
ministers of righteousness.
Matthew 13:30
In the church, there are wheat and the tares and both look very much alike.
Matthew 25:1-10
All ten virgins had lamps and oil; all claimed to be waiting for the groom but
five were foolish.




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 349 of 379
The purpose of the judgment is to reveal to the universe if repentance,
confession, faith and baptism were genuine or not. The proof of true conversion
is a sanctified life that produces works that flow from repentance. God saves us
by grace through faith but He will judge us by our works because works reveal
whether faith is genuine or not.
COL, p. 310
“It is while men are still dwelling upon the earth that the work of investigative
judgment takes place in the courts of heaven. The lives of all [‘guests’ (plural)
were examined] His professed followers pass in review before God. All are
examined according to the record of the books of heaven, and according to his deeds
the destiny of each is forever fixed.”
COL, p. 312
“Righteousness is right doing, and it is by their deeds that all will be judged. Our
characters are revealed by what we do. The works show whether the faith is
genuine.”
Is Ellen White correct in this assessment? Absolutely, because as we have seen, in
the Bible the judgment is always concerned with an examination of our works,
words, deeds, thoughts, motives and intentions of the heart!
2 SM, p. 380
“That which God required of Adam before his fall was perfect obedience to His law.
God requires now what He required of Adam, perfect obedience, righteousness
without a flaw, without shortcoming in His sight. God help us to render to Him all
His law requires. We cannot do this without that faith that brings Christ's
righteousness into daily practice.”
Luke 12:35-37
The wedding transpires in heaven, and Jesus will return from the wedding to take
his people home:
"Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; 36 and you yourselves be like men
who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding, that when he

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 350 of 379
comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. 37 Blessed are those servants
whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly, I say to you that
he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come and serve them.”

Verse 12

“So he said to him, 'Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment?'
[This conversation between God and the believer does not actually take place
in heaven]. And he was speechless [the point is that no excuses will be given or
allowed].
Romans 3:19
“Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law,
that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before
God.”
COL, pp. 315, 316
“Many who call themselves Christians are mere human moralists. They have refused
the gift that alone could enable them to honor Christ by representing Him to the
world. The work of the Holy Spirit is to them a strange work. They are not doers of
the word. The heavenly principles that distinguish those who are one with Christ
from those who are one with the world have become almost indistinguishable. The
professed followers of Christ are no longer a separate and peculiar people. The
line of demarcation is indistinct. The people are subordinating themselves to the
world, to its practices, its customs, its selfishness. The church has gone over to the
world in transgression of the law, when the world should have come over to the
church in obedience to the law. Daily the church is being converted to the world.
All these expect to be saved by Christ's death, while they refuse to live His self-
sacrificing life. They extol the riches of free grace, and attempt to cover themselves
with an appearance of righteousness, hoping to screen their defects of character;
but their efforts will be of no avail in the day of God.”




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 351 of 379
COL, p. 317
“Men may now excuse their defects of character, but in that day they will offer no
excuse.”

Verse 13

“Then the king said to the servants [the angels], 'Bind him hand and foot, take him
away, and cast him into outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of
teeth.'
Matthew 13:30
“Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of harvest I will say to the
reapers, "First gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them,
but gather the wheat into my barn."

Verse 14

"For many are called, but few are chosen"
Revelation 17:14
“These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for He is
Lord of lords and King of kings; and those who are with Him are called, chosen, and
faithful."

Final Story

Matthew 18:23-35
“Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king [God] who wanted to settle
accounts [judgment] with his servants [those who claim Jesus]. 24 And when he
had begun to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand
talents [a huge debt that was impossible to pay]. 25 But as he was not able to pay,
his master commanded that he be sold, with his wife and children and all that he
had, and that payment be made [what he deserved]. 26 The servant therefore fell
down before him [repentance for sin or for the consequences?], saying, 'Master,
have patience with me, and I will pay you all.' 27 Then the master of that servant was

     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 352 of 379
moved with compassion [grace and mercy], released him, and forgave [God’s
free forgiveness or justification] him the debt. 28 "But that servant went out and
found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and he laid hands
on him and took him by the throat [his works showed that his repentance was
not genuine], saying, 'Pay me what you owe!' 29 So his fellow servant fell down at
his feet and begged him, saying, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you all.' 30
And he would not, but went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. 31
So when his fellow servants [the recording angels] saw what had been done, they
were very grieved, and came and told their master all that had been done. 32 Then
his master, after he had called him, said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you
all that debt because you begged me. 33 Should you not also have had compassion
on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you?' 34 And his master was angry, and
delivered him to the torturers until he should pay [his forgiveness was revoked]
all that was due to him. 35 "So, My heavenly Father also will do to you if each of you,
from his heart, does not forgive his brother his trespasses."
Is the judgment investigation a threat to a person’s salvation? Only if their
repentance, confession and faith are counterfeit. If a person on a train has
purchased a ticket, he has nothing to fear when the attendant asks to see it.
However, if a person on the train never purchased the ticket he has every reason
to fear.




     Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 353 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 354 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


        CHAPTER 17: MATTERS RELATING TO
             LITERARY STRUCTURE

Textual Location of the Three Woes

Revelation 8:12
Describes the end of the fourth trumpet (the period of papal dominion).
Revelation 8:13
After the fourth trumpet has passed, the angel announces three woes.
Revelation 9:1-11
The events of the fifth trumpet are the first woe (the French Revolution)
Revelation 9:12
When the events of the fifth trumpet conclude the text tells us that the first woe
has passed.
Revelation 9:13-21
These verses contain a description of the sixth trumpet. When this trumpet
concludes in verse 21, there is no reference to the second woe passing (this


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 355 of 379
indicates that chapters 10 and 11 will have more to say about the period of
the sixth trumpet).
Revelation 10:1-11:13
This passage will further amplify certain aspects of the periods of the fourth,
fifth and sixth trumpets:
    Revelation 11:2-6 takes us back to period of the 1260 years (538-1798
     AD: the fourth trumpet)
    Revelation 11:7-10 describes the French Revolution that killed the two
     witnesses (1793-1797 AD: the fifth trumpet and the first woe).
    Revelation 11:11-12 describes the resurrection of the two witnesses
     after the French Revolution. They no longer testify in sackcloth but
     rather enjoy great power and prestige. This miraculous resurrection of
     the Bible not only describes the establishment of multiple Bible societies
     in the aftermath of the French Revolution. It also portrays the great
     Advent Awakening in the renewed study of Bible prophecy because of
     the opening of the little book of Daniel at the time of the end and
     knowledge of prophecy increased.
    Revelation 11:13 introduces the two groups that will exist in the end
     time:
      (1) The two enemies of the two witnesses (the previous context
      identifies the enemies as the gentiles and the beast from the
      bottomless pit). Revelation uses the word ‘enemies’ only twice and both
      references are in chapter 11:5, 12. In the first instance, the enemies
      persecuted the two witnesses during the 1260 years while in the second
      they killed the two witnesses at the end of the same period).
      (2) The remnant who fear God and give glory to Him, a clear literary link
      to the three angels’ messages (Revelation 14:7; Luke 7:16; Acts 2:43; Acts
      13:16; 19:17, 18; 2Corinthians 7:1; Revelation 11:18; 15:4).



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 356 of 379
   Revelation 11:14: After the resurrection of the Bible and the mention of
    the enemies and the remnant, the text tells us that the second woe is
    past.
   We must understand the sixth trumpet as the negative side (the
    perspective of the enemies) of end time events while we should see
    Revelation 10 as the positive side (the perspective of the remnant)
    during the same period.
     Expressed another way, the sixth trumpet describes the gathering of the
     enemies of the two witnesses in the end time while Revelation 10
     describes the gathering of the faithful remnant during the same period.
   The sixth trumpet carries us from 1844 all the way to the close of
    probation when the mystery of God is finished (Revelation 10:7). We
    know this because the seventh trumpet describes the close of probation
    and Jesus taking over the kingdoms of the world.
Revelation 12 provides a recapitulation and further amplification of the
periods of the fourth, fifth and sixth trumpets
      This chapter begins with the 1260-year period (the fourth trumpet)
      The chapter continues with the period when the earth helped the
       woman (the period during which the deadly wound is kept in place by
       the civil powers of the world).
      The chapter ends with a description of the same two groups that
       Revelation 11:13 briefly introduced: the enemies and the remnant.
      The remnant of the woman’s seed (the remnant of Jesus) keeps the
       commandments of God while the other group (the enemies) manifests
       the wrath of the dragon (Revelation 12:17).

      Revelation 12:17 is a further description of the period of the sixth
       trumpet.
Revelation 13 provides a further amplification of the fourth, fifth and sixth
trumpets:

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 357 of 379
       Revelation 13:1-8 provides a description of the 1260 years (the
        fourth trumpet) when the beast persecuted the saints of the Most
        High (notably described as 42 months thus linking it with Revelation
        11:2).
       Revelation 13:9 portrays the deadly wound that was given to the
        papacy with the sword beginning in 1793 and culminating in 1798
        (the fifth trumpet and the first woe).
       Revelation 13:11-18 then describes the end time conflict between
        those who worship the beast and his image and receive his mark (the
        enemies) and those who receive the seal of God (those who fear God
        and give Him glory, the 144,000 of Revelation 14:1-5 who are in
        contrast to the apostate worshipers in the previous chapter). This is
        the period of the sixth trumpet that ends with the second woe.
In Revelation 14:6-13, the fourth and fifth trumpets have faded from view.
The emphasis now will fall upon the message that the remnant will proclaim
during the time when the sixth trumpet is blowing. This is the ‘prophesying
again’ of Revelation 10:11.
    That is to say, Revelation 14:6-13 takes us back to the time when faithful
     remnant began to proclaim the first angel’s message to the world (in the
     1830’s and early 1840’s) after the fifth trumpet and fifth woe ended in
     1798.
    This is the period when the two witnesses resurrected and no longer
     gave their testimony in sackcloth.
    The sixth trumpet polarizes the world into two groups: those who have
     the seal of God and those who receive the mark of the beast (Revelation
     14:9-11) ending with the two groups (the enemies and the remnant) once
     again in Revelation 14:9-11.

Revelation 14:14-20: When the two groups are complete, the seventh
trumpet is about to sound. The harvest of the earth and the grapes of the earth


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 358 of 379
are ripe. The remnant is in spiritual Jerusalem while outside the city are the
enemies who are intent on destroying the remnant (Revelation 14:18-20; see
the background of Joel 3).

Notably, Revelation 16:14 shows the negative side of this where three
counterfeit angels go to the kings of the earth and the whole world to gather
them in apostasy against God for a final battle against God’s people! Thus the
sixth trumpet (Revelation 9:13-21) describes the gathering of the wicked
forces against God’s people and Revelation 10 and 14:6-13 describes the
gathering of God’s people by the three angels’ messages.

Understanding the Location of Revelation 11:19

Revelation 11:19 (first part):
The temple opens in 1844 and the sixth trumpet begins the gathering of the
righteous and the wicked. When the temple closes there will be voices, thunder,
lightning, a great earthquake and great hail.
Revelation 11:19 (second part); 15:5-8:
The temple closes and the seven plagues fall culminating with the seventh
plague where the same phenomena of Revelation 11:19 are described.
Revelation 11:19 is not the conclusion of chapter 11 but rather the introduction
to chapters 12-14. In other words, Revelation 11:19 brings us to the same
climax as Revelation 11:1 does in chapter ten. Thus, Revelation 11:1 speaks
about the beginning of the judgment in heaven after the great disappointment
and Revelation 11:19 reaches the same climax again. Notice the following
sequence of events in Revelation 11:
    The beginning of the investigative judgment in 1844 (Revelation 11:1)
    The persecution of the two witnesses for 42 months or 1260 days
     (Revelation 11:2-6) Verse 1 presents the climax of the judgment and then
     verses 2-6 go back in time to the 1260 years. This proves that my



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 359 of 379
     translation of Revelation 11:1 was correct. The measuring of the temple
     comes after the 1260 years.
   The conclusion of the 42 months with the French Revolution and the
    deadly wound (Revelation 11:7-13).
   In the aftermath of the French Revolution there is a remnant that fears
    God and gives glory to Him (Revelation 11:13). This is actually the
    prolepsis of the climax that will be reached again in Revelation 14:6, 7.
   The close of the investigative judgment and Christ takes over the
    kingdom (11:15-18).
   Revelation 11:19: Takes us back to the point of time of Revelation 11:1
    and then Revelation 12, 13 backtracks to the 1260 years to provide a
    framework for the beginning of the judgment in Revelation 14:6, 7.

Structural Matters Relating to Revelation 11:19-15:8

   The beginning of the investigative judgment in 1844 introduces a new
    cycle. Revelation 11:19 begins in the very same place as Revelation 11:1.
     “As foretold in the Scriptures, the ministration of Christ in the most holy
     place began at the termination of the prophetic days in 1844. To this time,
     apply the words of the Revelator, "The temple of God was opened in Heaven,
     and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament." [REV. 11:19] The
     ark of God's testament is in the second apartment of the sanctuary. As Christ
     entered there, to minister in the sinner's behalf, the inner temple was
     opened, and the ark of God was brought to view. To those who by faith
     beheld the Savior in his work of intercession, God's majesty and power were
     revealed. As the train of his glory filled the temple, light from the holy of
     holies was shed upon his waiting people on the earth.” 4SP p. 273
     “In the ministration of the earthly tabernacle, which served "unto the
     example and shadow of heavenly things," the holy of holies was opened only
     upon the great day of atonement, the typical day of judgment, set apart for
     the cleansing of the sanctuary. Therefore the announcement, "The temple

  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 360 of 379
   of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of
   his testament," points to the opening of the most holy place of the
   heavenly sanctuary, at the end of the twenty-three hundred days—in
   1844—as Christ entered there to perform the closing work of the
   atonement. Those who by faith followed their great High Priest, as he
   entered upon his ministry in the most holy place, beheld the ark of the
   testament.” RH, November 9, 1905
 It is important to realize that the introductory scene of Revelation 11:19
  presents two moments of time: When the temple opens and when there
  is thunder and lightning.
 Revelation 11:19 depicts the beginning of the judgment and Revelation
  15:5-8 describes its close.
 Between Revelation 11:19 and 15:5-8 the central focus falls upon the
  events that transpired between the beginning and the ending of the
  judgment.
 Of course, Revelation 12 and 13 also refer to events that occurred before
  1844.
 Revelation 12:1-5, 7-12 describes the dragon’s persecution of Jesus and
  the victory of Jesus during this period.
 After briefly mentioning the beasts of Daniel 7, Revelation 13 begins with
  the moment that pagan Rome (the dragon) handed off the baton to Papal
  Rome (the beast). Clearly, both Revelation 12 and Revelation 13 begin
  with pagan Rome.
 Revelation 12:6, 13-15 describes the papal persecution during the 1260
  years, a period of respite when the earth helps the woman (12:16) and
  climaxes with the final persecution against God’s people (Revelation
  12:17).
 After describing pagan Rome handing off the baton to papal Rome,
  Revelation 13:3-8 describes the 42 months of persecution against the

Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 361 of 379
      saints. It then mentions a period of respite while the beast recovers from
      a deadly wound (Revelation 13:9, 10). The chapter climaxes with a
      portrayal of the final persecution of God’s remnant (13:11-18).
    Revelation 14:1-5 describes those who are victorious in the final conflict.
    Revelation 14:6-12 contains the messages that warn about the beginning
     of the judgment and warn against the powers that will play an important
     role in the end time crisis.
    At the conclusion of the three messages the whole world will have been
     divided into two groups (Revelation 14:14-18).
    As the wicked gather around the city to destroy God’s people, Jesus and
     his angels come to trample the winepress (Revelation 14:19, 20).
   In Revelation 15:2-4: God’s people stand victorious again at the end of the
      vision.
Revelation 15:5-8 portrays the moment when the door of probation will close
and the outpouring of the seven last plagues by God.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 362 of 379
          “REVELATION’S SEVEN TRUMPETS”
             A CONTEXTUAL APPROACH
                          BY PASTOR STEPHEN BOHR


     CHAPTER 18: VIEWS AND ISSUES IN THE
          STUDY OF THE TRUMPETS

Uriah Smith’s view of the First Five Trumpets

FIRST TRUMPET

“The blast of the first trumpet has its location about the close of the fourth century
and onward, and refers to these desolating invasions of the Roman Empire under
the Goths.”

SECOND TRUMPET

“The sounding of the second trumpet evidently relates to the invasion and
conquest of Africa, and afterward of Italy, by Gaiseric (Genseric), king of the
Vandals. His conquests were for the most part naval, and his triumphs were “as it
were a great mountain burning with fire, cast into the sea.”

THIRD TRUMPET

“It is here premised that this trumpet has allusion to the desolating wars and
furious invasions of Attila, king of the Huns, against the Roman power.”

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 363 of 379
FOURTH TRUMPET

“We understand that this trumpet symbolizes the career of Odoacer, the first
barbarian ruler of Italy, who was so intimately connected with the downfall of
Western Rome. The symbols sun, moon, and stars — for they are undoubtedly here
used as symbols—evidently denote the great luminaries of the Roman
government, its emperors, senators, and consuls.”

FIFTH TRUMPET

“The meaning of this term may be learned from the Greek abyssos, which is
defined ‘deep, bottomless, profound,’ and may refer to any waste, desolate, and
uncultivated place. It is applied to the earth in its original state of chaos (Genesis
1:2). In this instance it may appropriately refer to the unknown wastes of the
Arabian desert, from the borders of which issued the hordes of Saracens, like
swarms of locusts.”

FIFTH TRUMPET (continued)
“Like the noxious and even deadly vapors which the winds, particularly from the
southwest, diffuse in Arabia, Mahometanism spread from hence its pestilential
influence — arose as suddenly and spread as widely as smoke arising out of the
pit, the smoke of a great furnace. Such is a suitable symbol of the religion of
Mahomet, of itself, or as compared with the pure light of the gospel of Jesus. It was
not, like the latter, a light from heaven, but a smoke out of the bottomless pit.”

Please take time to read the following article “Issues In The Interpretation of
the Seven Trumpets of Revelation” by Ángel Manuel Rodriguez, ThD. Here is
the link:

https://www.ministrymagazine.org/archive/2012/01/the-seven-trumpets-of-revelation




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 364 of 379
                       The Prophecy of Josiah Litch


The Time Period between the Fifth and Sixth Trumpets

“In the year 1840 another remarkable fulfillment of prophecy excited
widespread interest. Two years before, Josiah Litch, one of the leading ministers
preaching the Second Advent, published an exposition of Revelation 9, predicting
the fall of the Ottoman Empire. According to his calculations, this power was to
be overthrown "in A.D. 1840, sometime in the month of August;" and only a few
days previous to its accomplishment he wrote: "Allowing the first period, 150
years, to have been exactly fulfilled before Deacozes ascended the throne by
permission of the Turks, and that the 391 years, fifteen days, commenced at the
close of the first period, it will end on the 11th of August, 1840, when the Ottoman
power in Constantinople may be expected to be broken. And this, I believe, will be
found to be the case."--Josiah Litch, in Signs of the Times, and Expositor of
Prophecy, Aug. 1, 1840.

“At the very time specified, Turkey, through her ambassadors, accepted the
protection of the allied powers of Europe, and thus placed herself under the
control of Christian nations. The event exactly fulfilled the prediction. (See
Appendix.) When it became known, multitudes were convinced of the correctness
of the principles of prophetic interpretation adopted by Miller and his associates,
and a wonderful impetus was given to the advent movement. Men of learning and
position united with Miller, both in preaching and in publishing his views, and
from 1840 to 1844 the work rapidly extended.” GC p. 334, 335

Josiah Litch’s prophecy is a debated issue within Adventism. Although it is
difficult to grasp, the following is an attempt to present it as briefly and clearly
as possible.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 365 of 379
Litch’s prophecy was based on the following text:

“And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day,
and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.” (Revelation 9:15)

The ‘hour, and a day, and a month, and a year’ is understood by many Greek
scholars to designate a date—a specific point of time—as in the following
example: 3 p. m., 5th April, 2003. They see the ‘hour, and a day, and a month, and
a year’ as a date rather than a time period.

On the other hand, by applying the principle that a symbolic day represents a
literal year, Litch taught that the ‘hour, and a day, and a month, and a year’ was
a prophetic time period of 391 years and fifteen days. (In prophetic time, a year
consists of 360 days, with each prophetic day symbolizing a literal year.)

To find a starting point for his proposed prophetic-time period, he first made
the assumption that Revelation, chapter 9, portrays the Muslim world in
prophecy. This assumption was based upon the works of commentators and
historians rather than upon the testimony of the Bible as its own interpreter.

Then he took the five months of Revelation 9:10 as a prophetic time period of
150 years reaching from July 27, 1299 A. D., to July 27, 1449 A. D. The starting
point for this period was fixed by the date when Othman (also called Osman),
leader of the Muslim Ottoman Turks, made his first assault on the Greek Empire
(also called the Byzantine Empire, or the East Roman Empire). In Litch’s
interpretation, the 150 years ended on July 27, 1449 A. D. During this time, said
Litch, the Muslims were permitted to torment the Greek Empire ‘by constant
depredations, but not politically to kill them’ (Josiah Litch, Prophetic
Expositions, Volume 2, p. 180).

Then Litch made the assumption that his time period started at the assumed
ending point of the ‘five months’ of Revelation 9:10.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 366 of 379
Based on the above assumptions, time periods, and dates, Litch started his
prophetic time period of three hundred and ninety-one years and fifteen days
on July 27, 1449 A. D., and predicted its end on August 11, 1840.

Of the beginning of this period, Litch writes:

“And when the sixth angel sounded, it was commanded to take off the restraints
which had been imposed on the nation [the Muslim Ottoman Turk Empire], by
which they were restricted to the work of tormenting men, and their
commission extended to slay the third part of men.” (Quoted in Uriah Smith,
Daniel and Revelation, p. 505.

In this interpretation, the ‘third part of men’ was considered the Greek Empire.
Uriah Smith quoted Edward B. Elliot as follows:

“It was to ‘the fire and the smoke and the sulphur,’ to the artillery and firearms
of Mahomet, that the killing of the third part of men, i. e., the capture of
Constantinople, and by consequence the destruction of the Greek Empire, was
owing” (Uriah Smith, Daniel and Revelation, p. 510)

Thus, he equates the Greek Empire (also called the Byzantine Empire, or the
East Roman Empire) with ‘the third part of men’.

At this point, Litch’s interpretation becomes more difficult to understand. The
text upon which his interpretation was based focused on the slaying of ‘the
third part of men,’ which he took to symbolize the Greek Empire. The following
is the entire text of the verse upon which he based his interpretation:

“And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day,
and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.” (Revelation 9:15)

The Greek Empire fell when the Muslim Ottoman Turks seized Constantinople,
its capital city, in 1453, four years after the beginning of Litch’s prophecy. The

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 367 of 379
Ottoman Turks did not need 391 years and fifteen days to conquer the Greek
Empire. Therefore, what did Litch do? Ignoring what was actually written, he
proceeded on the assumption that the prophecy was foretelling the length of
time before the powerful phase of the Ottoman Empire would cease; but that
idea is not even hinted at in the above quoted text.

The event that Litch took to represent the end of the time period on August 11,
1840 was the delivery of an ultimatum from the four powers, England, Austria,
and Prussia to the pasha of Egypt to negotiate a settlement of hostilities
between Egypt and the Ottoman Empire. ‘The sultan [of the Ottoman Empire]
accepted this intervention of the great powers, and thus made a voluntary
surrender of the question into their hands.”

Uriah Smith wrote:

“On August 11, 1840, the period of three hundred ninety-one years and fifteen
days, allotted to the continuance of the Ottoman power, ended; and where was
the sultan’s independence?—GONE. Who had the supremacy of the Ottoman
Empire in their hands?—the four great powers; and that empire has existed
ever since only by the sufferance of these Christian powers. Thus was the
prophecy fulfilled to the very letter.” (Uriah Smith, Daniel and Revelation, p.
517)

The Issues

1. Is ‘an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year’ a date or a time period? Greek
scholars consider this question, and many come up with the conclusion that it
is a date.

2. Litch’s time prophecy differs from the established prophetic-time prophecies
in several important respects.

The prophecies in which a prophetic day equals a literal year—Numbers 14:34;
Ezekiel 4:4-6; Daniel 8:14 and 9:24; Revelation 12:6 (and other prophecies of

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 368 of 379
the same time period)—all produce literal years, but not literal days. All the
literal years consist of even numbers ending in zero—40 years, 390 years, 40
years, 2300 years, 490 years, and 1260 years. Not one of the established
prophetic-time prophecies uses the hour as a unit of prophetic time. In addition,
each of the established prophetic-time prophecies is based upon only one unit
of prophetic time—either days, weeks, months, or years.

By contrast, Litch’s interpretation produces a time period of 391 years and 15
days, it uses the hour as a unit of prophetic time, and it is based upon four
different units of time—‘an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year.’

These differences generate the following questions: Is ‘an hour, and a day, and
a month and a year’ really a statement of prophetic time, in which a day
represents a literal year? Did God give one atypical prophetic-time period that
was precise as to the exact days of elapsed time?

God well knew the difficulties that man has had in devising a calendar that stays
in agreement with the astronomical ‘calendar’ that He instituted. When one
assumes precision to the exact number of elapsed days, how does he account for
the change that Pope Gregory XIII made in the calendar in 1582, by which
Thursday, October 4, was followed by Friday, October 15? Litch did not take
this calendar change, and all its ramifications in terms of elapsed days, into
account in his computations.

(Note: The month and day for the beginning of the investigative judgment is not
based upon mathematical computations, but upon the date of Yom Kippur in
the Jewish religious calendar.)

3. What Biblical support can be found for Josiah Litch and Uriah Smith’s
interpretation of the fifth and sixth trumpets, an interpretation upon which
Litch’s time computations rest? The support for their interpretation, as given
by Uriah Smith, consists solely of quotations from Bible commentators and
historians. Where does the principle, ‘One scripture is the key to unlock other

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 369 of 379
scriptures,’ come into play here? There is no Biblical support for this
interpretation.

4. Is there any evidence that Litch’s proposed time period, based on Revelation
9:15, started at the assumed ending point of the ‘five months mentioned in
Revelation 9:10?

5. Were the events of August 11, 1840 a fulfillment of the prophecy of
Revelation 9:15? The answer is no. The length of time that the Muslim Ottoman
Empire would continue as a powerful nation is not even mentioned in
Revelation 9:15

6. However, the Lord’s messenger addresses this subject in these words:

“In the year 1840, another remarkable fulfillment of prophecy excited
widespread interest. . . At the very time specified, Turkey, through her
ambassadors, accepted the protection of the allied powers of Europe, and thus
placed herself under the control of Christian nations. The event exactly fulfilled
the prediction.” GC, pp. 334, 335.

When inspiration speaks, the statement is true; but how is it to be understood?
Mrs. White calls the event of August 11, 1840, ‘another remarkable fulfillment
of prophecy’. Perhaps the key to this conundrum is found in the definition of
the word ‘remarkable.’ It can mean ‘notable,’ or ‘noteworthy,’ but it can also
mean ‘extraordinary,’ or ‘singular.’

In view of all the evidence, the only possible conclusion is that the Lord’s
messenger is speaking of the prophecy of Josiah Litch, not the prophecy of the
apostle John recorded in Revelation 9:15. It is an ‘extraordinary’ case, a
‘singular’ case, indeed, in which God permitted an event to take place that was
regarded, at the time, as the fulfillment of prophecy.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 370 of 379
Why? After considering all the facts, one can only conclude that Josiah Litch’s
interpretation was not worked out under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
Who, then, did inspire it? Evidently, Satan did [I here disagree with the
author. I believe that Litch reached his conclusions based on human
error]. It would appear that his plan was to work up a great excitement over a
false prophecy, only to create a backlash when it fell flat. Such an event would
cause a great revulsion against the principle of ‘prophetic time,’ in which a
prophetic day symbolizes a literal year. If God had not honored the prophecy of
Josiah Litch, it would have created such a prejudice against the preaching of the
2300-day prophecy, which was also based on the day-for-a-year principle, as to
thwart God’s plan for its worldwide proclamation. Therefore, God saw fit to
honor Litch’s prophecy with an extraordinary, singular ‘fulfillment of prophecy’
to make a profound impression upon contemporary society.

It was left to after generations to unravel the mystery as they sought the
blessings promised to the earnest student of the book of Revelation.

After considering the facts, one must conclude that this fulfillment of prophecy
was a fulfillment of Josiah Litch’s prophecy—not a fulfillment of the Bible
prophecy given in Revelation 9:15. Therefore, the reasonable conclusion is that
the fulfillment of Josiah Litch’s prophecy has no bearing in determining the
organization of the book of Revelation.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 371 of 379
Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 372 of 379
               THE SEVEN TRUMPETS IN ADVENTISM
                               By Gerhard Pfandl
                                  used by permission from:
                            Perspective Digest, Volume 24, Issue 3



    A recent Sabbath School Quarterly—The Book of Revelation—caused quite a
bit of discussion in the church, because among other things it presented an
interpretation of the seven trumpets in Revelation 8 and 9 that was completely
different from the traditional understanding of these chapters. The traditional
Adventist interpretation of the fifth and sixth trumpets with the Muslims and
Turks was the standard interpretation of Bible scholars in the 18th and 19th
centuries— Among them, John Wesley, Edward Irving, and Henry Drummond.
In America as well as in Europe, expositors usually saw in the first four
trumpets the barbarian invasions of the Roman Empire (Goths, Vandals, Huns,
and the fall of Rome in A.D. 476) and in the fifth and sixth the Saracens (another
name for Muslims) and Turks. Thus, it is not surprising that the Millerites,
especially Josiah Litch, did the same. They had behind them centuries of
exposition representing many faiths and nationalities.

   For Josiah Litch, the “fallen Star” in Revelation 9:1 was Mohammed, and the
symbolic “locusts” (vs. 3) the Muslim horsemen. The “five months” (vs. 5)1 of
torment were for him 150 years, which referred to the period of the Turkish
torment of the Greeks from 1299 to 1449. All of this had, of course, been
previously presented again and again by others.

   The symbolic “hour and day and month and year” under the sixth trumpet
(Rev. 9:15, NKJV) was widely acknowledged as representing 391 years and 15
days. Adding this time period to 1449 brought Litch to August 1840,2 when the
Sultan in Constantinople, he believed, would voluntarily surrender his
independence into the hands of the Christian powers. When at the predicted
time, Turkey, through her ambassadors, accepted the protection of the allied
powers of Europe, and thus placed herself under the control of Christian


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 373 of 379
nations, multitudes were convinced of the correctness of the principles of
prophetic interpretation adopted by Miller and his associates.

   Not surprisingly, Uriah Smith in 1867 in his book Thoughts, Critical and
Practical, on the Book of Revelation introduced this interpretation of the
trumpets into the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It became the standard
interpretation of the trumpets in Revelation in the church until recent times.
Many members around the world still hold this view and believe that any
deviation from it constitutes an apostasy from the faith.

   Beginning with Louis Were in Australia in the 1940s3 and continued by Hans
K. LaRondelle,4 Jon Paulien,5 and Ranko Stefanovic,6 the focus in the
interpretation of the trumpets shifted from political and military events to
spiritual aspects of the great controversy between Christ and Satan. Stefanovic,
the author of the recent Sabbath school quarterly, presented this scenario in
the lessons and in more detail in his book on Revelation. Instead of military
invasions and battles, he emphasizes the spiritual battles in the context of the
Great Controversy. The first trumpet is seen as God’s judgment on the Jews in
A.D. 70, who were the first nation to persecute the Christians. The second
trumpet heralds God’s judgment on Rome in the fifth century A.D.; Rome was
the second nation to persecute the Christians. The third trumpet portrays the
apostasy of the Christian Church in the medieval period. The fourth trumpet
describes “the temporal darkening of the spiritual sources of the true light,
namely, the Bible gospel, under the prevailing influence of
secularism,”7 following the Dark Ages. The fifth trumpet, according to
Stefanovic, “refers to the spiritual condition in the secular world and the
consequences of such conditions from the eighteenth century to our time.”8 And
the sixth trumpet “portrays the preparation for the battle of Armageddon,
which is described later in the book (Rev. 16:12–16).”9

   The lesson quarterly was heavily criticized by some because it seems to
contradict Ellen G. White’s statement in The Great Controversy, where she
wrote: “In the year 1840 another remarkable fulfillment of prophecy excited

   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 374 of 379
widespread interest. Two years before, Josiah Litch, one of the leading
ministers preaching the second advent, published an exposition of Revelation
9, predicting the fall of the Ottoman Empire. . . . At the very time specified,
Turkey, through her ambassadors, accepted the protection of the allied powers
of Europe, and thus placed herself under the control of Christian nations. The
event exactly fulfilled the prediction.”10 This is the only place in her writings
where Ellen G. White refers to the trumpets in Revelation 9. Robert W. Olson,
the former director of the Ellen G. White Estate, in his booklet “101 Questions
on the Sanctuary and on Ellen White” questioned whether she really supported
Litch or whether what she wrote is simply part of her description of the
Millerite movement. He wrote: “If Ellen White, in The Great Controversy, pp.
334–335, means that John the Revelator’s prophecy was fulfilled on August 11,
1840, she would be giving support to Litch’s interpretation of Revelation 9:15.
If she simply means that Josiah Litch’s prediction was fulfilled, then she is not
necessarily supporting Litch’s interpretation of the text.”11 In other words, if
she was simply recording what happened, she was not supporting Litch. Ángel
Rodriguez correctly observed, “the fact that she never again mentions 1840 as
a year when a biblical prophecy was fulfilled should make us cautious on how
we use this single statement.”12

    Heidi Heiks in his book Satan’s Counterfeit Prophecy has assembled a large
amount of historical material showing that the traditional interpretation of the
fifth and sixth trumpets in Revelation 9 is exegetically and historically not
defensible. The assumed dates for the beginning and ending of the 150 and 391
years are not confirmed by historical events. For example, the Battle of
Bapheus, which for Litch was the beginning date of the 150 years, did not take
place on July 27, 1299, as Litch assumed, but three years later on July 27,
1302.13 At the 1919 Bible Conference, a committee concluded that it could not
begin the 150 years on July 27, 1299, because “the date itself could not be
established.”14 Furthermore, Litch did not take note of the 10 days that were
deleted when the Julian calendar was changed to the Gregorian calendar in
1582. Thus, the date August 11, 1840, does not fit the prophecy.



   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 375 of 379
    The trumpets in Revelation 8 and 9 have produced two competing
interpretations in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It behooves us to
diligently study these chapters to see which interpretation is exegetically sound
and has the support of history. Ellen G. White advised: “The fact that certain
doctrines have been held as truth for many years by our people, is not a proof
that our ideas are infallible. Age will not make error into truth, and truth can
afford to be fair.”15

NOTES AND REFERENCES

1. Josiah Litch, The Probability of the Second Coming of Christ About A.D. 1843.
Shown by a Comparison of Prophecy and History, Up to the Present Time, and an
Explanation of Those Prophecies Which Are Yet to Be Fulfilled (Boston: David H.
Ela, 1838).

2. Ibid., 157.

3. Louis F. Were, Bible Principles of Interpretation (Melbourne: By the Author,
n.d.).

4. Hans LaRondelle, How to Understand the End-Time Prophecies of the
Bible (Sarasota, Fla.: First Impressions, 1997).

5. Jon Paulien, Decoding Revelation’s Trumpets: Literary Allusions and the
Interpretation of Revelation 8:7‒12, Andrews University Seminary Doctoral
Dissertation Series, vol. 11 (Berrien Springs, Mich.: Andrews University Press,
1987).

6. Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of
Revelation (Berrien Springs, Mich.: Andrews University Press, 2009).

7. Ibid., 303.


   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 376 of 379
8. Ibid., 312.

9. Ibid., 320.

10. The Great Controversy, 335, 336.

11. Robert W. Olson, One Hundred and One Questions on the Sanctuary and on
Ellen White (Washington, D.C.: Ellen G. White Estate, 1981), 50.

12. Ángel M. Rodriguez, “Issues in the Interpretation of the Seven Trumpets of
Revelation,” Ministry (January2012):                                        9:
https://www.ministrymagazine.org/archive/2012/01/the-seven-trumpets-
of-revelation.

13. Heidi Heiks, Satan’s Counterfeit Prophecy (Ringgold, Ga.: Teach Services Inc.
2013), 90.
14. Transcript of the 1919 Bible Conference of the General Conference of
Seventh-day Adventists, July 17, 1919 (General Conference Archives, Silver
Spring, Md.), 50.

15. Counsels to Writers and Editors, 35.




   Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
                by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 377 of 379
              THE FLOW OF REVELATION 8:12 – 15:4
                    for further information please refer to pages 355-362

Revelation 8:12                4th Trumpet – Papacy
Revelation 8:13                4th Trumpet Ends – Three Woes
Revelation 9:11 - Rev. 11 5th Trumpet - French Revolution
Revelation 9:12                1st Woe Passes
Revelation 9:13-21             6th Trumpet – Gathering of the Wicked
Revelation 10:1 – 11:1         6th Trumpet - Focus on Gathering the Remnant
Revelation 11:2-3              Expansion of Fourth Trumpet - Papacy
Revelation 11:7-10             Expansion of 5th Trumpet – French Revolution
Revelation 11:11-13            6th Trumpet – Witnesses Resurrect – Little Book
                               Opened - Remnant Fears God and Gives Him Glory
Revelation 11:14               Second Woe Passes
Revelation 12:1-5              Satan and Rome Attempt to Slay the Male Child
Revelation 12:6, 13-16         4th Trumpet – Papacy - Earth Helps the Woman
Revelation 12:17               6th Trumpet – War of Dragon with the Remnant
Revelation 13:1-2              4th Trumpet – Pagan Rome Gives the Papacy its
                               Throne
Revelation 13:3-9              4th Trumpet – Papal Rome
Revelation 13:9-10             5th Trumpet – French Revolution
Revelation 13:11-18            6th Trumpet – Gathering of the Wicked
Revelation 14:1-5              7th Trumpet – the Remnant in the Kingdom
Revelation 14:6-12             6th Trumpet – Three Angels Gather the Remnant
Revelation 14:14-19            Close of Probation – Two Groups Complete
Revelation 14:20               7th Trumpet (See Rev. 19:11-15) Jesus Comes to
                               Rescue the Remnant
Revelation 15:2-4              Remnant Victorious on Mount Zion


  Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
               by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 378 of 379
         Secrets Unsealed is a 501(C)3 non-profit media ministry.
        Your prayers and financial support are greatly appreciated.


                           SECRETS UNSEALED
                               5949 E. Clinton Ave.
                                Fresno, CA 93727
                                 559-264-2300
                          888-REV-1412 | 888-738-1412
                            info@secretsunsealed.org
                   SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org




  Download our free apps from your smart devices. Search: SecretsUnsealed | SUMTV

     We provide tax-deductible receipts for our donors in the U.S.A.
                 Thank you for your financial support.




Anchor School of Theology presents “Revelation’s Seven Trumpets: A Contextual Study”
             by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 379 of 379
