                        Table of Contents


Chapter Titles                                                   Page #

  1.   Notes on Revelation 13                                           3
  2.   Church and State in Revelation 13: The Background of Daniel 2    5
  3.   Lessons from the Jewish Harlot of Christ’s Day                   9
  4.   Notes on Revelation 12                                          27
  5.   Comments on Revelation 13:1-10                                  57
  6.   Revelation’s Land Beast                                         85
  7.   The Image of and to The Beast                                   123
  8.   The Number of the Beast: 666                                    183
  9.   The Beast, His Image and His Number: The Old Testament
       Background                                                      203
  10. The Mark of the Beast                                            213
  11. The Seal of the Living God                                       223
  12. Changing the Ordinance                                           237
  13. A Day to Remember: The Sabbath from Eden to Eden                 247
  14. Reflections on Daniel 11                                         269
  15. Decoding the Mysteries of Revelation 17                          281
  16. The Last Link in the Prophetic Chain                             301
  17. Christ and Antichrist                                            325
  18. Catholics Protestants and Worldlings                             345
  19. Reflections on the Pope’s Agenda                                 359
       Contact Information                                             385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 2 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                    by Pastor Stephen Bohr


       LESSON #1 – NOTES ON REVELATION 13
The Literary Structure of Revelation 13

Past (Revelation 13:1-3a): Description of the beast (John sees the beast).

Future (Revelation 13:3b, 4): The wound is healed and the whole world worships the beast.

Past (Revelation 13:5-7): Actions of the beast amplified (John hears the actions of the beast).

Future (Revelation 13:8): The whole world will worship the beast when the wound is healed.

Past Revelation 13:9-10: Past: The deadly wound is given.

Future (Revelation 13:11-18): The whole world will worship (Revelation 13:15—worship is the
issue) the first beast by command of the second beast.

The Old Testament Backgrounds

There are hints in Revelation 13 that come from four Old Testament backgrounds. These
hints should lead us to study the Old Testament stories in their totality. Revelation 13 is not
merely making a homiletical use of a few details from these Old Testament stories but
rather is telling us that they will be repeated on a grander global scale in the future. This
is the law of type and antitype.

      The beasts of Daniel 7 (Revelation 13:2).
      The story of the exodus of Israel from Egypt (the song of Moses and the Lamb in
       chapter 15:2-4).
      The Elijah story (fire that comes down from heaven in chapter 13:13).
      Daniel 3 (Nebuchadnezzar and his image).




          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 3 of 385
The Parties and Issues Involved in Revelation 13

      The dragon (The Roman Empire that gave its authority to the beast, 13:2; cf. Daniel
       7:25 with Revelation 12:6, 13-15)
      The first (sea) beast that received the deadly wound with the sword
      The second (land) beast that helps the deadly wound to heal
      The image that is erected by the land beast in honor to and in the presence of the
       sea beast
      The earth dwellers who worship the beast and his image
      The victorious Remnant that have the seal of God (Revelation 14:1-5; 15:2-4).
      The mark of the beast which is opposite of the seal of God (Revelation 13:18; 14:1).
      The number of the beast’s name

Links between Revelation 13, 14 and 15

There is a very close link between Revelation 13, 14 and 15. We know this because
Revelation 13 introduces the beast, his image, his mark and the number of his name
(Revelation 13:11-18). Revelation 14 warns against the beast, the image, the mark and the
number of his name (Revelation 14:9-11) and Revelation 15:2-4 refers to a group that has
gained the victory over the beast, his image, his mark and the number of his name.




         “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 4 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr


          LESSON #2 – CHURCH AND STATE IN
          REVELATION 13: THE BACKGROUND
                    OF DANIEL 2

The Feet of Iron and Clay

Daniel 2:41, 42:

“Whereas you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, the kingdom
shall be divided; yet the strength of the iron shall be in it, just as you saw the iron mixed with
ceramic clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of clay, so the kingdom
shall be partly strong and partly fragile.”

      The iron of the legs existed before the iron in the feet.
      The iron of the legs then continues in the feet of the image but in an amalgamated
       state. This means that the civil power of the Roman Empire continues in the foot
       stage.
      A new element is added to the iron in the foot stage and as a result there is an
       unusual and illegitimate amalgamation.
      The clay is of a particular type—potter’s clay.
      Iron and clay, when they are by themselves, are both useful and have a legitimate
       function. It is only when they are mingled that both are weakened.
      Thus the church and the state have their legitimate place and function but when
       they are mingled, the church becomes apostate and the state is corrupted. This is
       what the Bible refers to as ‘fornication’ in Revelation 17:1, 2. The church must be
       married only to Christ but when it ‘marries’ the state it becomes a harlot.

The clay is weak and the iron is strong. What is the meaning of the ‘strong iron’?



          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 5 of 385
“Finding herself [the papacy] destitute of the power of love, she has reached out for the
strong arm of the state to enforce her dogmas and execute her decrees. Here is the secret of
all religious laws that have ever been enacted, and the secret of all persecution from the
days of Abel to our own time” MB, p. 126.

According to Daniel 7:7 it is the power of Imperial Rome that is exceedingly strong. So it
is the state aspect that is strong.

Ellen White calls this strong aspect of Rome ‘the Roman element’:

“We shall soon see and shall feel what the purpose of the Roman element [the other
element would be the clay] is. Whoever shall believe and obey the word of God will thereby
incur reproach and persecution.” GC, p. 581

Every detail in Daniel 2 is of a symbolic nature. The gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone and
mountain are all symbolic and therefore the potter’s clay must also have a symbolic value.

What does the Potter’s Clay Represent?

This helpful statement from Ellen White provides an important clue:
"We have come to a time when God's sacred work is represented by the feet of the image in
which the iron was mixed with the miry clay. God has a people, a chosen people, whose
discernment must be sanctified, who must not become unholy by laying upon the foundation
wood, hay, and stubble. Every soul who is loyal to the commandments of God will see that the
distinguishing feature of our faith is the seventh-day Sabbath. If the government would honor
the Sabbath as God has commanded, it would stand in the strength of God and in defense of
the faith once delivered to the saints. But statesmen will uphold the spurious sabbath, and
will mingle their religious faith with the observance of this child of the papacy, placing it
above the Sabbath which the Lord has sanctified and blessed, setting it apart for man to keep
holy, as a sign between Him and His people to a thousand generations. The iron and the clay
represent the mingling of churchcraft and statecraft. This union is weakening all the
power of the churches. This investing the church with the power of the state will bring evil
results. Men have almost passed the point of God's forbearance. They have invested their
strength in politics, and have united with the papacy. But the time will come when God will
punish those who have made void His law, and their evil work will recoil upon themselves”
Manuscript 63, 1899. 4BC, p. 1168

Jeremiah 18:1-6 explains that the clay represents God’s Old Testament people, Israel
(remember that God has only one true church that spans both Testaments; Revelation
12:1, 6):




         “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 6 of 385
“The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying: "Arise and go down to the potter's
house, and there I will cause you to hear My words." Then I went down to the potter's house,
and there he was, making something at the wheel. And the vessel that he made of clay was
marred in the hand of the potter; so he made it again into another vessel, as it seemed good
to the potter to make. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying: "O house of Israel, can I
not do with you as this potter?" says the Lord. "Look, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so
are you in My hand, O house of Israel!”

Genesis 2:7 (cf. Isaiah 64:8): When God created the physical body of man he made it out
of potter’s clay. The body was perfect with all of its members but was lifeless. God
breathed the spirit into the body and then all of the organs and members began to fulfill
their particular function:

“And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the
breath of life; and man became a living being.”

“But now, O Lord, You are our Father; we are the clay, and You our potter; and all we are the
work of Your hand.”

Colossians 1:18: Symbolically speaking, the Church is the body of Christ. As the physical
body is composed of physical clay, so Christ’s spiritual body is composed of spiritual clay:

“And He is the head of the body, the church, Who is the beginning, the firstborn from the
dead, that in all things He may have the preeminence.”

Acts 2:1 informs us that ten days before Pentecost, the members of the body of Christ came
together as one:

“When the Day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.”

Acts 2:2-4: God then breathed the Holy Spirit into the body (see also, John 22:22, 23)

“And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the
whole house where they were sitting. Then there appeared to them divided tongues, as of fire,
and one sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to
speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.”

I Corinthians 12:7-13: Now all the members of the body began to function in perfect
harmony with the head and each fulfilled its particular function

“But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all: for to one is given
the word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another the word of knowledge through the same
Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, to



          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 7 of 385
another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to
another different kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. But one and the
same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills. For as
the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body, being many,
are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body —
whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free — and have all been made to drink into one
Spirit.”

Ezekiel 37:10, 11: The nation of Israel is compared to a valley of dry bones. After the
Babylonian Captivity God promised to bring the members of the body together, and put his
Spirit within:

“So I prophesied as He commanded me, and breath came into them, and they lived, and stood
upon their feet, an exceedingly great army. Then He said to me, "Son of man, these bones are
the whole house of Israel. They indeed say: 'Our bones are dry, our hope is lost, and we
ourselves are cut off!' [Because of the Babylonian captivity]

Revelation 17:1, 2 describes the same mixture of Church and state but uses different
symbolism. Instead of referring to the mixture of iron and clay it refers to a fornicating
relationship between the apostate harlot Church and the kings of the earth:

“Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked with me, saying to
me, ‘Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters, with
whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth were
made drunk with the wine of her fornication.’”

Revelation 18:1-3: We have the same scenario where the harlot church fornicates with
the kings of the earth:

“After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority,
and the earth was illuminated with his glory. And he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying:
"Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and has become a dwelling place of demons, a prison for
every foul spirit, and a cage for every unclean and hated bird! For all the nations have drunk
of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, the kings of the earth have committed
fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich through the
abundance of her luxury."




          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 8 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    LESSON #3 – LESSONS FROM THE JEWISH
          HARLOT OF CHRIST’S DAY
Introduction

“It was by departure from the Lord, and alliance with the heathen, that the Jewish church
became a harlot; and Rome, corrupting herself in like manner by seeking the support of
worldly powers, receives a like condemnation.” GC, p. 382

“There is a striking similarity between the Church of Rome and the Jewish Church at the
time of Christ's first advent. While the Jews secretly trampled upon every principle of the law
of God, they were outwardly rigorous in the observance of its precepts, loading it down with
exactions and traditions that made obedience painful and burdensome. As the Jews professed
to revere the law, so do Romanists claim to reverence the cross. They exalt the symbol of
Christ's sufferings, while in their lives they deny Him whom it represents.” GC, p. 568

“Whenever the church has obtained secular power, she has employed it to punish dissent
from her doctrines. Protestant churches that have followed in the steps of Rome by forming
alliance with worldly powers have manifested a similar desire to restrict liberty of
conscience. The Church of England gives an example of this in the long-continued persecution
of dissenters. During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, thousands of nonconformist
ministers were forced to flee from their churches, and many, both of pastors and people, were
subjected to fine, imprisonment, torture, and martyrdom. It was apostasy that led the early
church to seek the aid of the civil government, and this prepared the way for the
development of the papacy--the beast.” GC, p. 443

Jesus’ View of Church and State

Matthew 22:15-21: Jesus recognized the legitimate separate co-existence of two
kingdoms:



         “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 9 of 385
“Then the Pharisees went and plotted how they might entangle Him in His talk. And they sent
to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that You are true, and
teach the way of God in truth; nor do You care about anyone, for You do not regard the person
of men. Tell us, therefore, what do You think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?" But
Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, "Why do you test Me, you hypocrites? Show Me the
tax money." So they brought Him a denarius. And He said to them, "Whose image and
inscription is this?" They said to Him, "Caesar's." And He said to them, "Render therefore to
Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."

What do we owe to Caesar and what do we owe to God?

The Ten Commandments were written on two tables of stone. The first table describes our
vertical duty toward God and the second describes horizontal duty toward our fellow
human beings

Deuteronomy 4:13: The Ten Commandments were written on two tables of stone:

“So He declared to you His covenant which He commanded you to perform, the Ten
Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone.”

Deuteronomy 6:4, 5: Our first duty is vertical toward God:

"Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one! You shall love the Lord your God with all
your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength.”

Leviticus 19:18: Our second duty is horizontal toward our fellow human beings:

“You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but
you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord.”

Matthew 22:34-40: Christ described the two duties:

“But when the Pharisees heard that He had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together.
Then one of them, a lawyer, asked Him a question, testing Him, and saying, "Teacher, which is
the great commandment in the law?" Jesus said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God
with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.' This is the first and great
commandment. And the second is like it: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' On these
two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets."

Jesus and the Two Tables

The accusations of the Jewish leaders against Jesus had nothing to do with the last six
commandments. We never find them accusing Him of dishonoring his parents, killing,
adultery, theft, bearing false witness against His neighbor or covetousness. All the


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 10 of 385
accusations that were leveled against Jesus had to do with the first table of the Law. Jesus
was an exemplary citizen who never violated the civil laws of the Roman Empire.

The first commandment:

Mark 2:7:

"Why does this Man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone?"

John 10:33:

“The Jews answered Him, saying, "For a good work we do not stone You, but for blasphemy,
and because You, being a Man, make Yourself God."

The third commandment:

John 8:58, 59:

“Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I AM." Then they took
up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself and went out of the temple, going through
the midst of them, and so passed by.”

The fourth commandment:

John 9:16:

“Therefore some of the Pharisees said, "This Man is not from God, because He does not keep
the Sabbath."

John 5:16, 18:

“For this reason the Jews persecuted Jesus, and sought to kill Him, because He had done these
things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, "My Father has been working until now, and
I have been working." Therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill Him, because He not only
broke the Sabbath, but also said that God was His Father, making Himself equal with God.”

Jesus remained aloof from the civil power. He did not come to establish a temporal
kingdom but rather to implant the principles of God’s kingdom in the heart.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 11 of 385
The Jewish Nation Wanted Jesus to take over the Kingdom of Civil
Power

Matthew 4:10:

“Again, the devil took Him up on an exceedingly high mountain, and showed Him all the
kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to Him, "All these things I will give You if
You will fall down and worship me."

John 6:15:

“Therefore when Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take Him by force to make
Him king, He departed again to the mountain by Himself alone.”

Luke 9:55, 56:

“But He turned and rebuked them, and said, "You do not know what manner of spirit you
are of. For the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives but to save them." And they
went to another village.”

According to Jesus, the Kingdom of God must be implanted within before its principles can
be seen without. In this sense the kingdom works like leaven from the inside out. Jesus
represented the kingdom of God, not the kingdom of men.

Kingdom in the Heart

Luke 17:20, 21:

“Now when He was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, He
answered them and said, "The kingdom of God does not come with observation [external
display of power]; nor will they say: 'See here!' or 'See there!' For indeed, the kingdom of God
is within you."

Notice this powerful statement by Ellen G. White:

“The kingdom of God comes not with outward show. The gospel of the grace of God, with its
spirit of self-abnegation, can never be in harmony with the spirit of the world. The two
principles are antagonistic. "The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for
they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually
discerned" 1 Corinthians 2:14.

But today in the religious world there are multitudes who, as they believe, are working for the
establishment of the kingdom of Christ as an earthly and temporal dominion. They desire to
make our Lord the ruler of the kingdoms of this world, the ruler in its courts and camps, its


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 12 of 385
legislative halls, its palaces and market places. They expect Him to rule through legal
enactments, enforced by human authority. Since Christ is not now here in person, they
themselves will undertake to act in His stead, to execute the laws of His kingdom. The
establishment of such a kingdom is what the Jews desired in the days of Christ. They would
have received Jesus, had He been willing to establish a temporal dominion, to enforce
what they regarded as the laws of God, and to make them the expositors of His will and the
agents of His authority. But He said, "My kingdom is not of this world" John 18:36. He would
not accept the earthly throne.

The government under which Jesus lived was corrupt and oppressive; on every hand were
crying abuse—extortion, intolerance, and grinding cruelty. Yet the Savior attempted no civil
reforms. He attacked no national abuses, nor condemned the national enemies. He did not
interfere with the authority or administration of those in power. He who was our example
kept aloof from earthly governments. Not because He was indifferent to the woes of men,
but because the remedy did not lie in merely human and external measures. To be efficient,
the cure must reach men individually, and must regenerate the heart.

Not by the decisions of courts or councils or legislative assemblies, not by the patronage of
worldly great men, is the kingdom of Christ established, but by the implanting of Christ's
nature in humanity through the work of the Holy Spirit. "As many as received Him, to them
gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name: which were
born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God" John 1:12, 13.
Here is the only power that can work the uplifting of mankind. And the human agency for the
accomplishment of this work is the teaching and practicing of the word of God.” DA 509,
510

A Matter of National Security

After Jesus resurrected Lazarus, the multitudes began to follow Him as never before. The
Jewish leaders were losing their popularity and members and they were jealous of
Jesus. They feared that their nation would become irrelevant because everyone would
follow Jesus and the Romans would then take away their nation. In the minds of the Jewish
religious leadership solving this problem was a matter of national security! The spiritual
leaders believed that by killing Jesus they would save their nation from ruin when in
reality, when they killed Jesus they caused what they wished to prevent and brought
doom upon their nation. The Romans, which they used to destroy Jesus, later came and
destroyed their nation and city!

Shortly after Jesus resurrected Lazarus, the Jewish leadership called a special meeting of
the Sanhedrin (composed of the great religious scholars, priests and nobility of Judaism)
to deal with the growing menace of Jesus:



         “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 13 of 385
John 11:47-49:

“Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said: "What shall we do? For
this Man works many signs. If we let Him alone like this, everyone will believe in Him, and the
Romans will come and take away both our place and nation." And one of them, Caiaphas,
being high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all, nor do you consider that it
is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation
should perish."

The identical argument will be used in the name of national security in the future:

“It will be urged that the few who stand in opposition to an institution of the church and a law
of the state ought not to be tolerated; that it is better for them to suffer than for whole
nations to be thrown into confusion and lawlessness. The ‘rulers of the people’ brought the
same argument many centuries ago against Christ. ‘It is expedient for us,’ said the wily
Caiaphas, ‘that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not’ John
11:50. This argument will appear conclusive; and a decree will finally be issued against those
who hallow the Sabbath of the fourth commandment, denouncing them as deserving of the
severest punishment and giving the people liberty, after a certain time, to put them to death.
Romanism in the Old World and apostate Protestantism in the New will pursue a similar
course toward those who honor all the divine precepts.” GC 614, 615

In verse 53 we are told that the decision of the Sanhedrin was that Jesus should die in
order to save the nation.

Peter in the Garden

When the temple guard came to arrest Jesus, Peter took out the literal sword to defend
his Master. It is significant that Peter, the spokesman for the disciples of Christ, believed
that it was necessary to defend the kingdom of Jesus with the sword. Jesus firmly rebuked
Peter with words that are very reminiscent of Revelation 13:10:

Matthew 26:50-52:

“And suddenly, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword,
struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. But Jesus said to him, "Put your sword
in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword.”

The Religious Inquisition

From the Garden of Gethsemane Jesus was taken to the house of Caiaphas for a religious
inquisition.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 14 of 385
Matthew 26:57:

“And those who had laid hold of Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the
scribes and the elders were assembled.”

It is noteworthy that Jesus was first brought before a religious court for a religious trial. At
this point the Roman state has not yet come into play. It is a sobering fact that the apostate
church of that day and age (not the civil power), a church that claimed to be God’s true
church, sentenced Jesus to death. A short while later, the civil power of Rome merely
became the sword in the hand of the apostate church.

Matthew 26:59-64:

“Now the chief priests, the elders, and all the council sought false testimony against Jesus to
put Him to death, but found none. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they
found none. But at last two false witnesses came forward and said, "This fellow said: 'I am
able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days.'" And the high priest arose and
said to Him, "Do You answer nothing? What is it these men testify against You?" But Jesus kept
silent. And the high priest answered and said to Him: "I put You under oath by the living God:
Tell us if You are the Christ, the Son of God!" Jesus said to him, "It is as you said. Nevertheless, I
say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and
coming on the clouds of heaven."

      The religious trial of Jesus violated almost every statute of Jewish jurisprudence.
       This was no impartial court. The religious court had already made up its mind
       before the inquisition that it was going to convict Him. His due process rights were
       trampled underfoot:
      The Sanhedrin retained the services of false witnesses against Jesus.
      He was slapped by the high priest and scourged before he was found guilty.
      He was tried at night in private.
      He was accused of crimes that did not violate any of the civil laws of Rome.
      Ultimately He was condemned by the testimony of one witness and was pressured
       into incriminating himself.
      He was given no right to counsel.
      Contrary to Jewish law, He was tried on Friday. Jewish law forbade a trial to take
       place on Fridays, Sabbaths or feast days.
      Further, Jewish law required at least three days to pass between the time when the
       death sentence was pronounced and when it could be executed.




         “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 15 of 385
Denominational Ecumenism

At the time of Christ Judaism was composed of several sects. All these sects were Jewish
but they had conflicting doctrines and disliked one another. For example, the Pharisees
believed in life after death and the resurrection. The Sadducees, on the other hand believed
in neither. Even though they all represented different denominations with variant beliefs,
they all came together on one point: to destroy public enemy number one who in their
mind was a threat to the security of the nation. They felt that they had to come together
to save their nation from ruin but instead, by crucifying Christ, they were guilty of national
apostasy that led to national ruin.

It is important to remember that Jesus was found worthy of death by a religious tribunal.
Those who claimed to be the people of God condemned an innocent man to death.

Matthew 26:66:

“Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, "He has spoken blasphemy! What further need
do we have of witnesses? Look, now you have heard His blasphemy! 66 What do you think?"
They answered and said: "He is deserving of death."

Jesus taken to Civil Court

But the apostate religious leaders had a serious problem on their hands. The church could
not execute the death penalty that it had pronounced without the authorization of the
state. Therefore, after His religious inquisition, the church leaders took Jesus before
Pilate, the civil ruler.

Matthew 27:1, 2: The church appeals to the state:

“When morning came, all the chief priests and elders of the people plotted against Jesus to put
Him to death. And when they had bound Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to
Pontius Pilate the governor.”

John 18:30: When the religious leaders brought Jesus before Pilate, he asked them a very
penetrating question:

“Pilate then went out to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this Man?"

The leaders could sense by the tone of Pilate’s voice that he was not buying the idea that
Jesus was a criminal so they said:

"If He were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered Him up to you."




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 16 of 385
Two Kingdoms and Two Laws

The evidence shows that Pilate recognized the existence of two kingdoms with two
separate laws in his realm. He knew that Jesus had not violated any law of his kingdom
so he told them to judge Jesus according to their law:

John 18:31: Judge Him according to your law:

“Then Pilate said to them, "You take Him and judge Him according to your law.”

John 18:31: It was not lawful for the church to execute the death penalty

The leaders then explained that as a church they were not authorized to execute the death
penalty without the approval of the civil power of Rome. They were requesting the
imprimatur of Rome to execute the death penalty and thus they used the civil power or
sword of Rome to slay Jesus.

“Therefore the Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death."

Luke 23:2: The leaders recognized that they could not persuade Pilate to condemn Jesus
for His religious convictions unless they could find some crime that Jesus had committed
against Rome. In order to accomplish this purpose, they resorted to open and boldfaced
prevarication. They leveled three accusations against Jesus:

“And they began to accuse Him, saying, "We found this fellow [1] perverting the nation and
[2] forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, saying that He [3] Himself is Christ, a King."

Pilate knew that Jesus was not perverting the nation and perhaps he knew that Jesus was
not a tax evader. But when Pilate heard that Jesus claimed to be a king he called Jesus into
his private chambers to question him about this accusation. If Jesus claimed to be a king
He would be guilty of the crime of sedition against the Roman Empire.

Pilate asked Jesus if He was really a king. In His answer, Jesus clearly revealed that He
believed in the existence of two separable kingdoms within the Roman Empire. But Jesus
laid Pilate’s concern to rest by stating that His kingdom was not of this world. In fact, He
affirmed that if His kingdom were of this world His disciples would use their swords to
establish and defend it:

John 18:36:

“Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My
servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is not
from here."




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 17 of 385
When Pilate had interviewed Jesus his concerns were laid to rest. He realized that Jesus
was some other kind of king and that Jesus did not represent any danger to Rome. If Pilate
had thought that Jesus aspired to the political throne he would have instantly condemned
Jesus for sedition against the Roman government:

John 18:37:

“Pilate therefore said to Him, "Are You a king then? "Jesus answered, "You say rightly that I
am a king. For this cause I was born and for this cause I have come into the world, that I
should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice."

Pilate’s Verdict: Not Guilty

Three times Pilate went before the infuriated crowd to publicly announce that he could
find no fault in Jesus:

John 18:38:

“Pilate said to Him, "What is truth?" And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews,
and said to them: "I find no fault in Him at all.”

John 19:4:

“Pilate then went out again, and said to them, "Behold, I am bringing Him out to you, that you
may know that I find no fault in Him."

John 19:6:

“Therefore, when the chief priests and officers saw Him, they cried out, saying, "Crucify Him,
crucify Him!" Pilate said to them, "You take Him and crucify Him, for I find no fault in Him."

In the mind of the religious leaders Jesus had violated the first table of the Law but Pilate
wanted nothing to do with this table. Even the Jewish leaders admitted that Pilate had his
law and they had theirs:

John 19:7:

“The Jews answered him: "We have a law, and according to our law He ought to die, because
He made Himself the Son of God."

The same argument will be used against God’s people at the end of time:

“Those who live during the last days of this earth's history will know what it means to be
persecuted for the truth's sake. In the courts injustice will prevail. The judges will refuse to
listen to the reasons of those who are loyal to the commandments of God because they know



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 18 of 385
the arguments in favor of the fourth commandment are unanswerable. They will say, "We
have a law, and by our law he ought to die." God's law is nothing to them. "Our law" with
them is supreme. Those who respect this human law will be favored, but those who will not
bow to the idol sabbath have no favors shown them.” ST May 26, 1898, par. 10

John 19:11: Jesus recognized that Pilate occupied a legitimate place as a civil ruler of
Rome but He also made it clear that this position had been given to him from above:

“Jesus answered, "You could have no power at all against Me unless it had been given you
from above, therefore the one who delivered Me to you has the greater sin."

Political Expediency

We have noticed that Pilate publicly announced three times that he could find no fault in
Jesus. Why, then, did he condemn an innocent man to death? There were two reasons:

Matthew 27:24: First, there was a tumult brewing and Pilate did not want to have a riot
on his hands:

“When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he
took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, "I am innocent of the blood of
this just Person. You see to it."

But second, and more significantly, Pilate condemned Jesus because the religious leaders
put political pressure on him and he was afraid of being removed from his political
position. They intimidated him with the thought that if he released Jesus who claimed to be
a King, Caesar would remove him from being governor:

John 19:12: Fear of losing his political position

“From then on Pilate sought to release Him, but the Jews cried out, saying, "If you let this Man
go, you are not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar."

At the end of time political leaders will also condemn God’s faithful people to secure
public favor:

“The dignitaries of church and state will unite to bribe, persuade, or compel all classes to
honor the Sunday. The lack of divine authority will be supplied by oppressive enactments.
Political corruption is destroying love of justice and regard for truth; and even in free
America, rulers and legislators, in order to secure public favor, will yield to the popular
demand for a law enforcing Sunday observance. Liberty of conscience, which has cost so great
a sacrifice, will no longer be respected.” GC, p. 592




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 19 of 385
Leaders Influence Members

It was not primarily the members who wanted the death of Jesus. Scripture makes it
clear that they asked for the blood of Jesus because they were influenced by their religious
leaders:

Matthew 27:20:

“But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for
Barabbas and destroy Jesus.”

Ellen White makes this perceptive remark:

“Legions of evil angels controlled the priests and rulers, and gave voice to the suggestions of
Satan in persuading and tempting the people by falsehoods and bribes to reject the Son of
God, and to choose a robber and murderer in his stead.” Review and Herald, April 14, 1896

High Treason and Fornication

The climax of the trial of Jesus was when Pilate brought out Jesus and Barabbas and put
them side-by-side before the mob and then asked which of them should be released. The
Jewish leaders by their answer committed high treason against God:

John 19:13-15:

“When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus out and sat down in the judgment
seat in a place that is called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. 14 Now it was the
Preparation Day of the Passover, and about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, "Behold
your King!" 15 But they cried out, "Away with Him, away with Him! Crucify Him!" Pilate said
to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered: "We have no king but
Caesar!"

Thus when Israel claimed Caesar as their king they rejected Jesus, the King of kings! By
fornicating with the Roman state they rejected their husband and played the harlot.

It is clear in the Gospels that Jesus wanted to be Israel’s only husband. All sorts of
marriage metaphors are used in the Gospels to describe the relationship that Jesus
wanted to have with His people.

      John the Baptist, who came to prepare the way for the marriage of Jesus with His
       people, is called the friend of the bridegroom (John 3:29).

      Jesus asked how the children could fast while the bridegroom was in their midst
       (Mark 2:19, 20).



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 20 of 385
      Jesus told the parable of the ten virgins (Matthew 25:1-10) which in its first
       instance applied to the Jews.

      And Jesus narrated the parable of the wedding feast where the Jews slighted the
       invitation to the wedding (Matthew 22:1-14).

Clearly, Jesus was the bridegroom who was wooing His people to fall in love with Him and
marry Him but they chose to marry the civil power instead.
By choosing Caesar over Christ, the Jewish nation was spiritually fornicating with the civil
power. They forsook their husband and chose Caesar instead. This is exactly what Old
Testament Israel had done repeatedly. But this time there was a certain finality to their
spiritual adultery as can be seen in the parable of the vineyard workers (Matthew 21:33-43)
and the fig tree (Matthew 21:19).

Apostasy and National Ruin

The religious leaders thought that by destroying Christ they would save their nation but
by crucifying Christ, they caused what they wished to prevent. The very Romans that they
had used to crucify Christ came and destroyed their city and took away their nation. In
other words, national apostasy led to national ruin.

Something similar will occur when the kings of the earth who have fornicated with the
Roman Catholic papacy will hate her and rise to destroy her (Revelation 17:16):

Luke 19:41-44:

“Now as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it, saying, "If you had known, even you,
especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace! But now they are hidden from
your eyes. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment
around you, surround you and close you in on every side, and level you, and your children
within you, to the ground; and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because
you did not know the time of your visitation."

The same will occur at the end of time. Protestant churches will think that by joining the
state they will save the nation but the contrary will occur. National apostasy will lead to
national ruin:

“With rapid steps we are approaching this period. When Protestant churches shall unite with
the secular power to sustain a false religion, for opposing which their ancestors endured the
fiercest persecution, then will the papal sabbath be enforced by the combined authority of
church and state. There will be a national apostasy, which will end only in national ruin”
Manuscript 51, 1899. Evangelism, p. 235



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 21 of 385
The Church after Pentecost

The book of Acts indicates that Jesus sent the disciples to preach the gospel and to baptize
those who repented of their sins (Mark 17:17; Matthew 24:14; Acts 1:6-8). In order to
accomplish their work, Jesus gave his disciples the Holy Spirit so that they could preach
the Word of God with convicting power. The weapon that Jesus gave His church was the
sword of the Spirit:

Ephesians 6:17:

“And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.”

Acts 1:8: The way in which the church uses this sword is by preaching the Word of God.
Jesus gave no other sword to the church:

“But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be
witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth."

Matthew 10:34-39: Notably, Jesus did not give His disciples permission to use the punitive
sword of the state to punish those who rejected their message. In fact, Jesus instructed that
the punitive sword would not be used by the disciples but rather against them:

"Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace but a sword.
35 For I have come to 'set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a
daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law'; 36 and 'a man's enemies will be those of his own
household.' 37 He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me. And he who
loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me. 38 And he who does not take his
cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me. 39 He who finds his life will lose it, and he who
loses his life for My sake will find it.”

In the book of Acts there is not a shred of evidence that the apostles ever used the civil
power of Rome to advance the cause of Christ’s kingdom or punish those who were not
in harmony with it. In fact, the disciples were constantly persecuted by the rulers of Rome
by instigation of the Jews (see Acts 9:23; 13:45, 50; 14:2; 16:20, 21; 17:6, 7, 13; 18:12-15;
20:3, 19; Acts 21:27; Acts 23:12; Acts 24:1-10; Acts 25:2, 3, 9, 10, 15, 16; Acts 26: 2, 3;
26:21; Acts 28:18, 19)

Let’s notice just one example from the long list of references above:

Acts 12:1-3:

“Now about that time Herod the king stretched out his hand to harass some from the
church. Then he killed James the brother of John with the sword and because he saw that it



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 22 of 385
pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to seize Peter also. Now it was during the Days of
Unleavened Bread.”

According to the unanimous testimony of the book of Acts, the apostate Jewish church
constantly used the Roman magistrates to jail, whip and kill the followers of Jesus.
Never in any book of the New Testament do we find any hint of the followers of Jesus using
the civil power to fulfill the mission of Jesus. The church used only the sword that Jesus had
given her, the Sword of the Spirit

The Civil Sword of the State

There is another sword that is mentioned in the New Testament. This sword does not
belong to the church but rather to the state. God established the civil order and gave it a
sword to punish violators of civil law. This sword can legitimately be used by the civil
power to punish violations of the second table of the law. In other words, the state uses
this sword (by imprisonment, confiscation of goods, fines and the death penalty) to protect
and preserve the civil order of society. The apostle Paul referred to this sword in Romans
13:1-10:

“Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from
God, and God appoints the authorities that exist. Therefore whoever resists the authority
resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves for
rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the
authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister
to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is
God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil, therefore you must be
subject, not only because of wrath but also for conscience' sake. For because of this you also
pay taxes, for they are God's ministers attending continually to this very thing. Render
therefore to all their due: taxes to whom taxes are due, customs to whom customs, fear to
whom fear, honor to whom honor.” Owe no one anything except to love one another, for he
who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, "You shall not commit
adultery," "You shall not murder," "You shall not steal," "You shall not bear false witness,"
"You shall not covet," and if there is any other commandment, are all summed up in this
saying, namely, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." Love does no harm to a neighbor
therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.”

Apostasy Enters the Church

When the church lost the simplicity of the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit,
apostasy came in and as a result the church merged with the state. As a result, the same
scenes of the trial and crucifixion of Jesus were repeated once again in the person of His



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 23 of 385
saints. This time the apostate papal church persecuted the followers of Jesus as the Jews
had persecuted Jesus. By persecuting the church they were persecuting Jesus.

Lessons from Pilate’s Wife

When Pilate (the civil ruler) was deliberating on whether to deliver Jesus unto death, his
wife sent him a message, warning him to have nothing to do with this just man. But Pilate,
instead of heeding his wife, because of the pressure of the people who in turn were
pressured by the religious leaders and to save his political position washed his hands
and delivered an innocent man to death:

Matthew 27:19:

“While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, "Have nothing to do
with that just Man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of Him."

Matthew 27:24:

“When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he
took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, "I am innocent of the blood of
this just Person. You see to it."

Pilate was not innocent of the blood of this man. God had given him a message and he
rejected it. The same call goes out to the political rulers of the world today. Will they give
in to the pressure of the church and condemn God’s faithful people to death or will they pay
heed to the counsel of Pilate’s wife? The decision will be in their hands.

Both Scripture and the Spirit of Prophecy clearly affirm that the history of Jesus will be
repeated again with His body, the church:

John 16:1-3:

"These things I have spoken to you that you should not be made to stumble. They will put you
out of the synagogues; yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers
God service. And these things they will do to you because they have not known the Father nor
Me.”

“The forces of the powers of darkness will unite with human agents who have given
themselves unto the control of Satan, and the same scenes that were exhibited at the trial,
rejection and crucifixion of Christ will be revived. Through yielding to satanic influences
men will be merged into fiends, and those who were created in the image of God, who were
formed to honor and glorify their Creator, will become the habitation of dragons, and Satan




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 24 of 385
will see in an apostate race his masterpiece of evil--men who reflect his own image
(Manuscript S 39, 1894). 5BC, p. 1136

“He [Satan] will work in as subtle a manner as we near the end of earth's history. All his
deceiving power will be brought to bear upon human subjects, to complete the work of
deluding the human family. So deceptive will be his working that men will do as they did in
the days of Christ; and when asked: Whom shall I release unto you, Christ or Barabbas? The
almost universal cry will be, Barabbas, Barabbas! And when the question is asked, "What
will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews?" the cry again will be,
"Crucify him!" Christ will be represented in the person of those who accept the truth, and
who identify their interest with that of their Lord. The world will be enraged at them in the
same way that they were enraged at Christ, and the Disciples of Christ will know that they
are to be treated no better than was their Lord. But Christ will surely identify his interest
with that of those who accept him as their personal Savior. Every insult, every reproach, every
false accusation made against them by those who have turned their ears away from the truth
and are turned unto fables, will be charged upon the guilty ones as done to Christ in the
person of his saints.” RH April 14, 1896

“The agencies of Satan are having their last chance to develop before the world, before angels
and men, the true principles of their attributes. The people of God are now to stand as
representatives of the attributes of the Father and the Son.” RH April 14, 1896




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 25 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 26 of 385
          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr


       LESSON #4 – NOTES ON REVELATION 12
Three Centers of Focus

      Revelation 12:1-5 amplified in 12:7-12: The Child
      Revelation 12:6 amplified in 12:13-16: The Woman
      Revelation 12:17 amplified in chapter 13: The Remnant

In Daniel 7 and Revelation 13:1-10 the center of focus is on the earthly powers that
Satan used to persecute God’s people. But in this chapter we see that the real enemy of
God’s people is Satan.

There are three Old Testament contexts that form the background of this chapter:

      The Gospel promise of Genesis 3:15
      The exodus of Israel from Egypt
      The story of Elijah

The Genesis 3:15 Backdrop

“And I will put [1] enmity between [2] you [the serpent] and the [3] woman and between
your seed and her [4] Seed; He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise His heel."

Notice the four elements of Genesis 3:15:

      Enmity
      Serpent
      Woman
      Two seeds




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 27 of 385
The primary enmity is between the serpent and the woman’s Seed. Then the enmity
extends against the woman and finally against the remnant of the woman’s Seed.

      Enmity against the woman’s Seed
      Enmity against the woman
      Enmity against the remnant of the woman’s Seed

The Exodus Backdrop

Prophecy: God's Old Testament bride is compared to a beautiful woman (Jeremiah 6:2;
Jeremiah 31:32). God married Israel in the Old Testament. The woman is God's bride and
the Father implanted Jesus in the womb of Mary.

Fulfillment: Revelation 12:1: God's bride is the Church. Jesus was the Seed of Abraham
and David. Jesus once said that “salvation is of the Jews” (John 4:22, 25). In other words,
Jesus was born from the lineage of the Jewish nation, that is, from the Old Testament
Church.

Prophecy: God’s people were crying out in travail because of the bitter bondage to cruel
taskmasters (Exodus 1:13-14; 2:7, 12-14. Israel was longing for the birth of a deliverer
(Exodus 2:23-25). God’s people were in bondage in a strange land. If they were not
delivered, the promise of the Seed could not be fulfilled.

Fulfillment: When Jesus was about to be born into this world, the whole of humanity was
in bondage to sin (John 8:32-34; Hebrews 2:14-15). Revelation 12:2 depicts the woman in
travail, longing for a deliverer.

Prophecy: Israel was enslaved by Pharaoh, the great dragon (Ezekiel 29:3).

Fulfillment: God’s people were enslaved by the accuser of the brethren, the great dragon,
the ancient serpent, the devil and Satan (Revelation 12:3, 4, 9).

Prophecy: A deliverer was born of a woman whose name was Moses (Exodus 2:1-2).

Fulfillment: A man child was born of the woman (Revelation 12:5; Matthew 2). The
woman at this stage represents the Jewish Church. Jesus was the seed of Abraham and of
David. This means that Jesus was born from the Old Testament Church. For this reason,
Jesus said to the Samaritan woman that salvation is of the Jews (John 4:22, 25; see also
Romans 9:4, 5).

Prophecy: Pharaoh fears to lose his throne to the deliverer (Exodus 1:22).

Fulfillment: Herod fears to lose his throne (Matthew 2:13).




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 28 of 385
Prophecy: Pharaoh kills the infants in order to get rid of the deliverer but Moses is
protected in Egypt (Exodus 1:22).

Fulfillment: All the infants killed by Herod to get rid of the deliverer (Matthew 2:16).

Prophecy: God called Moses and Israel out of Egypt (Hosea 11:1).

Fulfillment: Jesus was protected in Egypt from where he was called out (Matthew 2:15).

Prophecy: The death of the lamb marks the deliverance (Exodus 12:21-23).

Fulfillment: Jesus is presented by John as the Lamb of God before his baptism and Paul
tells us that Jesus is our Passover (John 1:29; I Corinthians 5:7, 8).

Prophecy: Israel was baptized in the Red Sea (I Corinthians 10:1-4).

Fulfillment: Jesus baptized in the Jordan River (Matthew 3:16-17).

Prophecy: Moses fasted for 40 days on the mountain in the wilderness (Exodus 34:28).

Fulfillment: Jesus goes into the wilderness and fasts for forty days and is taken up on a
high mountain (Matthew 4:2).

Prophecy: God gave Israel a law from a mountain through Moses (Exodus 34:32).

Fulfillment: Jesus explains the law of the kingdom of His Father in the Sermon on the
Mount (Matthew 5:1, 17, 21-22, 28).

Prophecy: The face of Moses shone on the mountain as he spoke with God (Exodus 34:29-
34).

Fulfillment: The face of Jesus shone upon the Mount of Transfiguration as he heard the
voice of God (John 1:14; Matthew 17:1-3). Interestingly, Moses was present on the Mount.

Prophecy: Moses intercedes for his people offering his own life (Exodus 32:30-32).

Fulfillment: Jesus is the great intercessor in favor of his sinful people (I Timothy 2:5; I
John 2:1).

Prophecy: Moses brings water from a rock (Exodus 17:1-6), brings manna from heaven
(Exodus 16), and raises up a serpent that saves Israel from death (Numbers 21:9).

Fulfillment: Jesus is the rock from whom water springs (John 4:13-14; 7:37-39; Matthew
21:42-44). He is also the manna from heaven (John 6:41), and the serpent raised in the
wilderness (John 3:14).




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 29 of 385
Prophecy: Moses organized the 12 tribes (Exodus 24:4) and established 70 (Exodus
24:1) to carry on the work of Israel.

Fulfillment: Jesus chose 12 and sent out 70 to carry out His work (Revelation 12:1;
Matthew 10:1; Luke 10:1, 17).

Prophecy: Moses was tested by the constant opposition of the Jewish leaders and the
people.

Fulfillment: Jesus was opposed constantly by the leaders and His people.

Prophecy: Moses died, was buried by God, was resurrected by Christ and ascended to
heaven (Deuteronomy 34:5, 6; Jude 9; Matthew 17:3).

Fulfillment: Jesus died, was buried, was resurrected and ascended to heaven (Revelation
12: 5).

Prophecy: Deuteronomy 18:15-18 promised one greater than Moses.

Fulfillment: Jesus is the prophecy greater than Moses (Acts 3:22-26).

Summary: Literal Moses brings literal deliverance to literal Israel from Literal bondage in
literal Egypt, by offering a literal lamb, took them across a literal desert. Brings literal water
from the literal rock and literal manna from heaven and raises up a literal serpent to
prevent literal death, and leads literal Israel to the borders of literal Canaan. It is clear that
the story of Moses was fulfilled on a larger scale in Jesus. It is obvious that what was literal
and local with Old Testament Israel is to be understood in a spiritual and worldwide sense
today.

Four Elements

Element #1: The Woman (12:1)

“Now a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under
her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars.”

What stage of the Church are we talking about here? Is it the Old Testament Church or the
New Testament Church? It must be the Old Testament Church because when John saw the
woman the child had not yet been born and the child is Jesus.

It would be good to remember that in the Old Testament we have many women and many
‘preliminary’ seeds who prefigure THE woman and THE Seed of Genesis 3:15.

What is represented by the sun that clothes the woman and the moon that she stands on?
The answer is determined by the meaning of the greater light and the lesser light.


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 30 of 385
      The sun is the greater light and the moon is the lesser light (Genesis 1:16)
      The sun: Represents Jesus Christ, the greater light (Psalm 84:11; Matthew 17:3;
       Revelation 1:16; Malachi 4:1)
      The moon: The lesser light is the Bible which gives witness to Jesus (John 5:35, 39,
       46, 47)
Only one woman: There is only one woman before Jesus was born, when Jesus was born,
when the Church was persecuted for 1260 years and when the final remnant is persecuted.
God has only one true Church in all ages. Dispensationalists are totally wrong when they
say that God has two mutually separable peoples. There is only one Messiah and only one
people of the Messiah. The same dragon is also active in all of the stages.

The twelve stars:

In the Old Testament period the twelve stars represent the twelve sons of Jacob. They
are the founders which later form the twelve tribes of Israel (Genesis 37:9, 10; Genesis
49:28)

In the New Testament stage the twelve stars also represent the twelve apostles who are
the founders of the New Testament Church: (Mark 3:14). Notice the number of times that
the apostles are addressed as 'the twelve' (Matthew 10:1, 2, 5, 11:1; 20:17; 26:20). Ellen
White concurred:

“As in the Old Testament the twelve patriarchs stood as representatives of Israel, so the
twelve apostles stood as representatives of the gospel church.” AA 19

There is only one city with the twelve tribes and the twelve apostles: Revelation 21:12;
Revelation 21:14

Element #2: The Woman’s Seed (12:2)

“Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth.”

The Seed is Jesus as can be seen clearly in Revelation 12:5
Element #3: The dragon: (12:3)

“And another sign appeared in heaven: behold, a great, fiery red dragon having seven heads
and ten horns, and seven diadems on his heads.”

“The line of prophecy in which these symbols are found begins with Revelation 12, with the
dragon that sought to destroy Christ at His birth. The dragon is said to be Satan (Revelation
12:9); he it was that moved upon Herod to put the Saviour to death. But the chief agent of
Satan in making war upon Christ and His people during the first centuries of the Christian Era
was the Roman Empire, in which paganism was the prevailing religion. Thus while the



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 31 of 385
dragon, primarily, represents Satan, it is, in a secondary sense, a symbol of pagan Rome.”
GC, p. 438

Element #4: Enmity against the woman’s Seed (12:4)

“His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon
stood before the woman who was ready to give birth, to devour her Child as soon as it was
born.”

Revelation 12:3, 4 and 7-12

It is common in the book of Revelation to present the broad sweep of events and group
them together. Notice as examples

      Revelation 8:3-5: The intercession with the censer and its throwing down presents
       the entire period of intercession between Christ’s intercessory ministry and the
       close of probation.
      Revelation 13:11: There is a time interval between the horns like a lamb and the
       speaking like a dragon although both are presented as happening simultaneously.
      Revelation 13:3: The deadly wound and its healing are spoken of as happening one
       right after the other without any time interval.

Revelation 11:19: Two events spoken of as happening without any time interval. We
should not be surprised that John jumps from the original event to the cross thus giving us
the broad sweep.

Revelation 12:4 presents the entire sweep of the controversy between Christ and Satan
from the origin of sin in heaven till Jesus died on the cross. Verse four first gives a
flashback into what happened in heaven and then goes right on to describe the birth of
Jesus. In verse seven once again he gives a flashback to heaven and then deals with events
after the ascension of Jesus. So verses 7-10 take us a little further forward than verse 3
and verse 5.

The structure of Revelation 12:3, 4 and 12:7-12 is to be understood in the following
manner:

Focus on Christ’s birth (Revelation 12:3, 4):

      Flashback: Before creation in heaven the dragon by his lies (tail) swept away one
       third of Christ’s angels
      Historical Event: Satan stood before the woman when Jesus was about to be born




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 32 of 385
Focus on Christ’s victory at the cross (Revelation 12:7-12):

      Flashback: Satan was originally cast out of heaven with his angels (which were
       originally Michael’s angels). The tenses of verses 7-9 clearly indicate that this is a
       past event that is being looked at from the perspective of the present.

       “And war broke [aorist] out in heaven: Michael and his angels fought [aorist] with the
       dragon; and the dragon and his angels fought [aorist], 8 but they did [aorist] not
       prevail, nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. 9 So the great dragon
       was [aorist] cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives
       [present participle] the whole world; he was [aorist] cast to the earth, and his angels
       were [aorist] cast out with him.”

      Historical Event: Verses 10-12 will now describe the consequences of the past
       event. Christ’s victory is celebrated in Revelation 12:10-12. There we are told that
       the heavenly host sang: because Christ had defeated Satan at the cross (see also John
       12:31-33; Luke 10:18, 19)

Reaction in heaven:

“Then I heard a loud voice saying in heaven: "Now salvation, and strength, and the
kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ have come [aorist], for the accuser of our
brethren, who accused [aorist] them before our God day and night, has been cast down. 11
And they overcame [aorist] him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony,
and they did not [aorist] love their lives to the death.”

“When Christ cried, "It is finished," God's unseen hand rent the strong fabric composing the
veil of the temple from top to bottom. The way into the holiest of all was made manifest. God
bowed His head satisfied. Now His justice and mercy could blend. He could be just, and yet the
justifier of all who should believe on Christ. He looked upon the victim expiring on the cross,
and said, "It is finished. The human race shall have another trial." The redemption price was
paid, and Satan fell like lightning from heaven (MS 111, 1897) 5BC, p. 1150

“Christ did not yield up His life till He had accomplished the work which He came to do, and
with His parting breath He exclaimed, "It is finished." John 19:30. The battle had been won.
His right hand and His holy arm had gotten Him the victory. As a Conqueror He planted His
banner on the eternal heights. Was there not joy among the angels? All heaven triumphed in
the Savior's victory. Satan was defeated, and knew that his kingdom was lost. To the angels
and the unfallen worlds, the cry, "It is finished," had a deep significance. It was for them as
well as for us that the great work of redemption had been accomplished. They with us share
the fruits of Christ's victory.” DA, p. 758




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 33 of 385
Reaction in heaven and on earth:

“Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe to the inhabitants of the earth
and the sea! For the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that
he has a short time."

Satan’s Rage: Revelation 12:6, 13-15

This rage is described in verse 6 and verses 13-15.

Revelation 12:6 amplified in 12:13-15

      The devil first wanted to get rid of the child (12:1-5, 7-12).
      When the child escaped, then he goes after the mother (12:6, 13-15). How do you
       think the child feels about someone mistreating his mother? Is there anything we
       love more than our mother? He who touches mother, touches the child or son.
      When God provides refuge for the woman to escape the ire of the serpent, the
       serpent goes after the remnant of her Seed (12:17).
Three Old Testament contexts form the backdrop of Revelation 12:6, 13-15:

      Genesis 3:15 (which we have already studied).
      Daniel 7 (the little horn; the time period and persecution of the saints is the same).
      The Elijah story (the most important backdrop).
“Now when the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman
who gave birth to the male Child. 14 But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle,
that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time and
times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent. 15 So the serpent spewed water out
of his mouth like a flood after the woman, that he might cause her [the woman] to be carried
away by the flood.”

Revelation 12:6 introduces several elements that are repeated and amplified in verses 13-
15:

      ‘Woman’
      ‘Serpent’
      ‘Wilderness’
      ‘Place’
      ‘Nourished’
      ‘time, times and half a time’




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 34 of 385
Commentary: Revelation 12:6 merely introduces the next stage in the drama but does
not tell us why the dragon is enraged with the woman. In order to know the reason, we
must go to the amplification in verses 13-15.

A comparison of Daniel 7:25 and Revelation 12:6, 14 reveals three things:

      The woman represents the saints of the Most High.
      The power behind the little horn is the dragon, the ancient serpent, the devil and
       Satan.
      The 3.5 times is the same as the 1260 days.
“The forty and two months are the same as the “time and times and the dividing of time,”
three years and a half, or 1260 days, of Daniel 7—the time during which the papal power was
to oppress God's people. This period, as stated in preceding chapters, began with the
establishment of the papacy, A. D. 538, and terminated in 1798.” GC, p. 439

Revelation 12:13-15:

Verse 13: We now discover the reason why the dragon is enraged with the woman and
went to make war with her. The dragon was angry because he had been cast down to the
earth at the cross.

“Satan again counseled with his angels, and with bitter hatred against God's government
told them that while he retained his power and authority upon earth their efforts must be
tenfold stronger against the followers of Jesus. They had prevailed nothing against Christ
but must overthrow His followers, if possible. In every generation they must seek to ensnare
those who would believe in Jesus. He related to his angels that Jesus had given His disciples
power to rebuke them and cast them out, and to heal those whom they should afflict. Then
Satan's angels went forth like roaring lions, seeking to destroy the followers of Jesus.”
EW, pp. 191, 192

Verse 14: The eagles’ wings bring to mind the exodus of Israel from Egypt. In Exodus
32:10-14 we find the imagery of the eagle rescuing Israel in the wilderness. The eagle is a
swift, powerful fowl that flies high and protects its young like the apple of its eye. This is
the same way that Jesus feels about His persecuted people. He feeds them, he places them
upon His wings and protects them from the enemy. In Exodus 19:4 (see also Isaiah 40:31).
God says that he took Israel upon eagles’ wings when He delivered them from bondage to
pharaoh, the great dragon.

Verse 15: Even though the dragon/serpent had seven heads, only one head is spewing
water out. This indicates clearly that only one of the seven heads rules at a given time. At
this time, we do not know which head is spewing out the water but the matter will be
explained in Revelation 17:15.



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 35 of 385
The meaning of the waters: Isaiah 8:7, 8; Psalm 69:1, 2, 14, 15; Daniel 9:26; Isaiah 57:20;
Psalm 68:21, 22; Psalm 89:9, 10; Jeremiah 51:36 (river=sea), Habakkuk 3:8, 15.

The waters are not just any old waters—they are the river Euphrates at flood stage.

In Joshua 24:2, 3, 14, 15 the Euphrates River is described under the euphemism of “the
Flood.”
Genesis 15:18 depicts the Euphrates as “the great River” (see also Isaiah 8:7, 8; 17:12, 13;
59:19). Thus in Revelation 12 we are to understand the River (with the definite article in
the Greek) or Flood that the dragon spews out his mouth as the river Euphrates.

Even though the Greek word translated “flood” and “river” in the New Testament are the
same, many contemporary Bible versions have seen the relationship between “the flood”
and “the river” and thus use them interchangeably. Notice only one example of many, the
English Standard Version (ESV):

“The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away
with a flood. 16 But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth
and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth.”

The Elijah Backdrop

In order to fully comprehend Revelation 12:6, 13-15 we must go to the Elijah story in the
Old Testament.

Foundational Principle:

The Seven churches, seven seals and seven trumpets cover the same basic historical events
from different perspectives. The churches actually form the skeletal foundation of the
chronological sequence of the rest of the book of Revelation.

      The first church, seal and trumpet describe the apostolic church.
      The second church, seal and trumpet describe the period of imperial Rome.
      The third church, seal and trumpet describe the period when paganism penetrated
       the Christian church.
      The fourth church, seal and trumpet describe the period of papal supremacy when
       the Bible and the work of Christ were eclipsed.

The Meaning of the Seven Churches

“The names of the seven churches are symbolic of the church in different periods of the
Christian Era. The number 7 indicates completeness, and is symbolic of the fact that the




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 36 of 385
messages extend to the end of time, while the symbols used reveal the condition of the
church at different periods in the history of the word.” AA, p. 585

      Ephesus – The apostolic church
      Smyrna: The persecuted church under the Roman emperors
      Pergamum: The compromising church under Constantine
      Thyatira: The apostate church of the middle Ages

Notable futurists Hal Lindsey and Dave Hunt agree that the seven churches represent
consecutive periods of Christian Church history. They also agree that the fourth church
represents the period of papal supremacy. Jezebel in the church of Thyatira must
therefore not be literal but symbolic because during this period literal Jezebel was
already dead and because Jezebel did not live 1260 years.

Analysis of the Church of Thyatira

Revelation 2:20-23:

“Nevertheless I have a few things against you, because you [the church of Thyatira] allow
that woman Jezebel [the beast of Revelation 13 and harlot of Revelation 17], who calls
herself a prophetess, to teach and seduce My servants to commit sexual immorality
[fornication, union of Church and state] and eat things sacrificed to idols [idolatry]. And I
gave her time [1260 years] to repent of her sexual immorality [fornication], and she did
not repent. Indeed I will cast her into a sickbed [the deadly wound], and those who commit
adultery with her into great tribulation [the French Revolution], unless they repent of their
deeds. I will kill her children [the Protestant churches] with death, and all the churches
[all seven of them] shall know that I am He who searches the minds and hearts [the
investigative judgment]. And I will give to each one of you according to your Works [the
moment when the reward is given to the harlot and her lovers].

The Elijah Story

In the Old Testament story, Jezebel, the pagan priestess introduced the apostasy into
Israel. In Revelation Thyatira is a period of history when the Christian church blended
paganism and Christianity and acted like Jezebel:

“Now Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all who were before
him. And it came to pass, as though it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the
Sidonians and he went and served Baal and worshiped him.” (I Kings 16:30, 31)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 37 of 385
Revelation 2:20

“Nevertheless I have a few things against you, because you allow that woman Jezebel, who
calls herself a prophetess, to teach and seduce My servants to commit sexual immorality and
eat things sacrificed to idols.” (Revelation 2:20)

Jezebel was an adulteress mother who had an illicit relationship [fornication] with the king
and she was involved in the occult:

“Now Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD, more than all who were before
him. And it came to pass, as though it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the
Sidonians; and he went and served Baal and worshiped him.” (I Kings 16:30, 31)

“Now it happened, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, "Is it peace, Jehu?" So he answered,
"What peace, as long as the harlotries of your mother Jezebel and her witchcraft are so
many?" (2 Kings 9:22)

“Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked with me, saying to
me, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters, with
whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth were
made drunk with the wine of her fornication. . . And on her forehead a name was written:
MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS
OF THE EARTH." (Revelation 17:1, 2, 5)

“For your merchants were the great men of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations were
deceived.” (Revelation 18:23)

The issues in the conflict involved the law of God, worship and the Gospel:

Worship:

“Now Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all who were before
him. And it came to pass, as though it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the
Sidonians; and he went and served Baal and worshiped him.” (I Kings 16:30, 31

“So they worshiped the dragon who gave authority to the beast; and they worshiped the
beast, saying, "Who is like the beast? Who is able to make war with him?" (Revelation 13:4;
also Revelation 14:9-12)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 38 of 385
The First Table of the Law:

 “Then it happened, when Ahab saw Elijah that Ahab said to him: "Is that you, O troubler of
Israel?" And he answered, "I have not troubled Israel, but you and your father's house have, in
that you have forsaken the commandments of the LORD and you have followed the Baals.” (I
Kings 18:18, 18)

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most
High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.” (Daniel 7:25)

II Thessalonians 2 refers to the man of sin and the mystery of lawlessness

Tearing Down the Gospel Sanctuary Truth:

Then Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." So all the people came near to him. And
he repaired the altar of the LORD that was broken down. And Elijah took twelve stones,
according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD had
come, saying, "Israel shall be your name". . . And it came to pass, at the time of the offering of
the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, "LORD God of Abraham,
Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that You are God in Israel and I am Your servant,
and that I have done all these things at Your word. Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people
may know that You are the LORD God, and that You have turned their hearts back to You
again." (I Kings 18:30, 31, 36, 37)

“He even exalted himself as high as the Prince of the host; and by him the daily sacrifices were
taken away, and the place of His sanctuary was cast down.” (Daniel 8:11)

“Then he [the beast] opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme His name,
His tabernacle, and those who dwell in heaven.” (Revelation 13:6)

No rain during the period of apostasy:

“And Elijah the Tishbite, of the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, "As the LORD God of Israel
lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, except at my word." (I
Kings 17:1)

“These have power to shut heaven, so that no rain falls in the days of their prophecy.”
(Revelation 11:6)

Notice the reason for the scarcity of rain:

“When I shut up heaven and there is no rain, or command the locusts to devour the land, or
send pestilence among My people, 14 if My people who are called by My name will humble



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 39 of 385
themselves, and pray and seek My face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from
heaven, and will forgive their sin and heal their land.”(II Chronicles 7:13, 14)

Where there is no rain there is famine for the word of God:

"Behold, the days are coming," says the Lord GOD, "That I will send a famine on the land, not
a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the LORD. They shall
wander from sea to sea, and from north to east; they shall run to and fro, seeking the word of
the LORD, but shall not find it.” (Amos 8:11, 12)

The length of the famine was three years and six months:

“Elijah was a man with a nature like ours and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain; and
it did not rain on the land for three years and six months.” (James 5:17)

The Jezebel of the middle Ages was given time to repent of her fornication. How much
time was given to her? “Time, times and the dividing of time”, a period that reached from
538 to 1798:

“And I gave her time [chronos] to repent of her sexual immorality, and she did not repent.”
(Revelation 2:21)

Revelation 11:3: The 1260 days are years (if the 1260 days are really years then Elijah
cannot be a literal person but a group of people who live like Elijah and proclaim the
message of Elijah

“And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand two
hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth."

Daniel 7:25: The 1260 days are equal to three and a half times

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most
High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.”

There was a faithful remnant within the apostate church:

“Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and
every mouth that has not kissed him." (I Kings 19:18)

“Now to you I say, and to the rest [loipos, the remnant] in Thyatira, as many as do not have
this doctrine, who have not known the depths of Satan, as they say, I will put on you no other
burden. But hold fast what you have till I come.” (Revelation 2:24, 25)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 40 of 385
Elijah was blamed for the calamities and he was sought out everywhere:

“As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my master has not sent
someone to hunt for you; and when they said, 'He is not here,' he took an oath from the
kingdom or nation that they could not find you.” (I Kings 18:10, 17)

“Then it happened, when Ahab saw Elijah that Ahab said to him: "Is that you, O troubler of
Israel?"

Elijah fled from the wrath of Jezebel to the wilderness where God had a place prepared
for him:

"Get away from here and turn eastward, and hide by the Brook Cherith, which flows into the
Jordan.” (I Kings 17:3)

“Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God that they
should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty days.” (Revelation 12:6)

“Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, that they
should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty days. . . But the woman was given
two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is
nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent.”(Revelation
12:6, 14)

The faithful were nourished by God:

“And it will be that you shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed
you there." (I Kings 17:4)

“The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the
evening; and he drank from the brook.” (I Kings 17:6)

“Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God that they
should feed her there one thousand two hundred and sixty days. . . But the woman was given
two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is
nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent.” (Revelation
12:6, 14)

Jezebel was a murderer of God’s prophets:

“For so it was, while Jezebel massacred the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah had taken
one hundred prophets and hidden them, fifty to a cave, and had fed them with bread and
water.” (I Kings 18:4)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 41 of 385
“Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I
do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time." And when he
saw that, he arose and ran for his life, and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and
left his servant there.” (I Kings 19:1, 2)

“I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of
Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with great amazement.” (Revelation 17:6)

The false prophets of Baal were fed at Jezebel’s table and she is called the mother because
she had daughters:

“Now therefore, send and gather all Israel to me on Mount Carmel, the four hundred and fifty
prophets of Baal, and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table."

“Now it happened, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, "Is it peace, Jehu?" So he answered,
"What peace, as long as the harlotries of your mother Jezebel and her witchcraft are so
many?" (2 Kings 9:22)

Revelation 16:13: The beast has the false prophet who does its bidding:

“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the
mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.”

The harlot has daughters:

“And on her forehead a name was written: MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER
OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.” (Revelation 17:5)

Jezebel had children who were born from her toward the end of the 1260 years who will
do her bidding.

“I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I am He who searches
the minds and hearts. And I will give to each one of you according to your works.” (Revelation
2:23)

A continuation of Elijah at the end of time

Malachi 4:1-3: The Elijah of the middle Ages was not the final Elijah. The conclusion of
the story has not been written. Jezebel was not slain, the false prophets were not slain,
the great and terrible day of the Lord did not come and the church was not translated.

We are to expect the final Elijah to complete the story.

"For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, and all the proud, yes, all who do
wickedly will be stubble. And the day which is coming shall burn them up," Says the LORD of


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 42 of 385
hosts, "That will leave them neither root nor branch. But to you who fear My name the Sun
of Righteousness shall arise with healing in His wings; and you shall go out and grow fat like
stall-fed calves. You shall trample the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your
feet on the day that I do this," says the LORD of hosts.”

The post apostolic church has two stages of existence because the harlot has two stages
of existence.

“When He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain
for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. 10 And they cried with a loud voice,
saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You judge and avenge our blood on those
who dwell on the earth?" 11 Then a white robe was given to each of them; and it was said to
them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number of their fellow
servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they were, was completed.” (Revelation
6:9-11)

The harlot has two stages of existence and so Elijah, the children (false prophets of the
harlot and Ahab must also have two stages of existence.

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed. And all the world marveled and followed the beast.” Revelation 13:3

Jezebel was cast into her sickbed along with those who committed fornication with her
into the great tribulation of the French Revolution.

“Indeed I will cast her into a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her into great
tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds.” (Revelation 2:22)

Elijah broadens from Israel to Western Europe to the world at the end of time.

Revelation 12:17: After the three and a half times God will raise up a people who will
keep the commandments of God, have the gift of prophecy, preach true worship to the
creator, restore the everlasting gospel, denounce Babylon, lead the world to take a
stand for the seal of God or the mark of the beast. This will be the end time Elijah with
the power from heaven which will enlighten the world with its glory (Revelation 18:1)
and will suffer persecution just as Elijah.

Revelation 12:15, 16:

“So the serpent [dragon] spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the woman, that
he might cause her to be carried away by the flood. 16 But the earth helped the woman, and
the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon had spewed out of
his mouth.”



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 43 of 385
Review of the literary structure of Revelation 12

      Flashbacks to heaven
      Israel in the Old Testament period denoted by the 12 stars
      The birth of the child
      The ascension of the child
      The victory celebration in heaven
      The wrath of the dragon against the woman
      Persecution for 1260 years
      The earth helps the woman by swallowing up the waters
      The final war against the remnant
This is the historical method at its best! It gives us a broad sweep of history from the
rebellion of Lucifer in heaven till the final war against God’s people.

Identity of the dragon

The dragon is one of the main antagonistic protagonists of Revelation 12.

Though not directly called a dragon in Daniel 7, the fourth beast is nevertheless a dragon
which represents the Roman empire. But Revelation 12 amplifies the meaning of Daniel 7
by explaining that the power behind the nondescript beast of Daniel 7 was Satan. Thus we
see that the fourth beast is the visible kingdom (the Roman empire) through which Satan
works in the background to attempt to kill the child.

In Daniel 7 the nondescript beast then sprouts a little horn that persecutes the saints for
1260 years. We know for a fact that the little horn is Roman because it rises from the
head of the fourth beast among its ten horns. But Revelation 12 takes us behind the
scenes to show us that the real power behind the little horn’s work during the 1260 years
(papal Rome) was the dragon. Thus Satan persecuted the woman through the
instrumentality of Rome. This is the reason we are told in Revelation 13:2 that the dragon
gave his seat, authority and power to the beast.

But we are also told that after a period of respite the dragon will persecute the remnant at
the end of time (Revelation 12:17). It is the same dragon that persecuted the child and
the woman and therefore it must represent Satan working through Rome. In fact,
Revelation 13 will show that the beast from the earth does everything to impress the
first beast, commanding all to worship it, to make an image of and to it and imposing its
mark. Thus the beast from the earth continues the legacy of Rome because it speaks like a
dragon (Revelation 13:11).




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 44 of 385
In all stages it is Satan working through Rome. Dragon persecutes the child then hands
off the baton to the beast (Revelation 12), then, after a period of respite, the beast from
the earth speaks like a dragon.

Ellen White explains how the United States will speak not only like Satan but also like
Rome:

“God's word has given warning of the impending danger; let this be unheeded, and the
Protestant world will learn what the purposes of Rome really are, only when it is too late to
escape the snare. She is silently growing into power. Her doctrines are exerting their influence
in legislative halls, in the churches, and in the hearts of men. She is piling up her lofty and
massive structures in the secret recesses of which her former persecutions will be repeated.
Stealthily and unsuspectedly she is strengthening her forces to further her own ends when
the time shall come for her to strike. All that she desires is vantage ground, and this is already
being given her. We shall soon see and shall feel what the purpose of the Roman element is.
Whoever shall believe and obey the word of God will thereby incur reproach and persecution.”
GC, p. 581

“By this first beast is represented the Roman Church, an ecclesiastical body clothed with
civil power, having authority to punish all dissenters. The image to the beast represents
another religious body clothed with similar powers. The formation of this image is the work
of that beast whose peaceful rise and mild professions render it so striking a symbol of the
United States. Here is to be found an image of the Papacy.” Last Day Events, p. 381

What came to the rescue of the woman who was being persecuted in Europe? The earth.
The earth must refer to a different place because all of the beasts of Daniel 7 came from
the sea including the fourth beast. What is represented by the earth? It represents the
territory of the United States. At this point the nation had not yet come forth from the
earth. The territory provided refuge for the woman beginning in 1620 and the nation later
arose from this territory around 1798.

In Revelation 12:13-15 we find a description of the persecution of the woman by the
dragon for 1260 years. Then in verse 16 you have the earth helping the woman. The earth
helps the woman before the 1260 years come to an end. How do we know this? The
answer is, by the sequence of events in The Great Controversy. In the The Great
Controversy, p. 265 Ellen White begins the chapter on the French Revolution which
comes at the very end of the 1260-year period. But in the very next chapter Ellen White
goes back in time to describe how the territory of the United States provided refuge for
those who were persecuted in Europe. This is very similar to the order of Revelation 12
where in verse 14 the woman is persecuted for 1260 years and then in verse 16 we have
the earth helping the woman.



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 45 of 385
Ellen White describes the fulfillment of the 1260 years:

“The periods here mentioned--"forty and two months," and "a thousand two hundred and
threescore days"--are the same, alike representing the time in which the church of Christ was
to suffer oppression from Rome. The 1260 years of papal supremacy began in A.D. 538, and
would therefore terminate in 1798. At that time a French army entered Rome and made the
pope a prisoner, and he died in exile. Though a new pope was soon afterward elected, the
papal hierarchy has never since been able to wield the power which it before possessed.”
GC, p. 266

Ellen White then goes back in history and expounds upon the pilgrims who came to the
territory of the United States in the early 1600’s:

“It was the desire for liberty of conscience that inspired the Pilgrims to brave the perils of
the long journey across the sea, to endure the hardships and dangers of the wilderness, and
with God's blessing to lay, on the shores of America, the foundation of a mighty nation.” GC,
p. 292

It was from persecution by the dragon that the woman escaped. This does not mean that
during the Colonial period religious liberty was always respected. There was religious
persecution in the colonial period but it was not the dragon who was doing the
persecuting. In fact, the colonists were very suspicious of the papacy.

“What nation of the New World was in 1798 rising into power, giving promise of strength and
greatness, and attracting the attention of the world? The application of the symbol admits of
no question. One nation, and only one, meets the specifications of this prophecy; it points
unmistakably to the United States of America. Again and again the thought, almost the exact
words, of the sacred writer has been unconsciously employed by the orator and the historian
in describing the rise and growth of this nation. The beast was seen "coming up out of the
earth;" and, according to the translators, the word here rendered "coming up" literally
signifies "to grow or spring up as a plant." And, as we have seen, the nation must arise in
territory previously unoccupied. A prominent writer, describing the rise of the United
States, speaks of "the mystery of her coming forth from vacancy," and says: "Like a silent seed
we grew into empire."--G. A. Townsend, The New World Compared With the Old, page 462. A
European journal in 1850 spoke of the United States as a wonderful empire, which was
"emerging," and "amid the silence of the earth daily adding to its power and pride." --The
Dublin Nation.” GC, p. 440

Who is the remnant of the woman’s Seed in Revelation 12? The woman’s seed has
already been identified as Christ in the first five verses of the chapter so the remnant of
her Seed must be the remnant of Jesus. In other words, this would be the Seed’s seed. Both




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 46 of 385
Jesus (John 12:24) and the apostle Paul developed this idea (Galatians 3:16, 28, 29). This
last remnant is not the remnant of the woman but rather the remnant of the woman’s Seed!

The Dragon’s Rage

Earlier in the chapter we noticed that the dragon was enraged against the woman because
the child was caught up to God’s throne. But at the end of the chapter the rage is due to the
fact that the remnant keeps the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus
Christ. Let’s talk a little about the commandments of God.

References to the Commandments of God in Revelation

The expression “keep the commandments of God” is used in three places in the book of
Revelation: 12:17; 14:12 and 22:14

Reference #1:

Revelation 14:12:

“[in contrast to those who worship the beast and his image and receive the mark]: “Here is the
patience of the saints; here are those who keep [tereoo] the commandments of God and the
faith of Jesus.”

Reference #2:

Revelation 22:14 [we will deal with the disputed translation of this verse later]:

“Blessed are those who do [poieoo] His commandments that they may have the right to the
tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city.”

The text does not say that they believe in the commandments or have the commandments
or teach the commandments or preach them but they keep them. So I guess if you teach
that no one can keep them you are making God a liar!

What does the word ‘keep’ mean? The Word “keep” means ‘to guard’, ‘to observe.’ It is used
in with Revelation 16:15 to describe those who guard their robes. It is also used in John
9:16 where Jesus is accused of not ‘keeping’ the Sabbath. It is further used in James 2:10
and Matthew 19:17 to describe the keeping of the Ten Commandments.

Reference #3:

Revelation 12:17:

“And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the rest of her
offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.”


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 47 of 385
Satan, the Law and the Origin of Sin

Why does Satan hate the commandments of God and those who keep them? In order to
answer this question, we must pay a visit to heaven as it was before this world was
created.

Satan sinned in heaven:

Ezekiel 28:16:

"By the abundance of your trading you became filled with violence within, and you sinned;
therefore, I cast you as a profane thing out of the mountain of God; and I destroyed you, O
covering cherub, from the midst of the fiery stones.”

Satan has sinned from the beginning:

John 3:8:

“He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the
Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil.”

Note: Sin is transgression of the law and therefore Satan must have broken the law:

I John 3:4:

“Whoever commits sin also commits lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness [or: ‘transgression of
the law’].”

Satan attempted to sell his lies in heaven. Notably, even today we use comercial terms to
metaphorically refer to lying. For example, we say, “I don’t buy it”; you “can’t sell me that
one”):

Ezekiel 28:16:

"By the abundance of your trading you became filled with violence within, and you sinned.
Therefore, I cast you as a profane thing out of the mountain of God; and I destroyed you, O
covering cherub, from the midst of the fiery stones.”

Ezekiel 22:9:

“In you are men who slander to cause bloodshed; in you are those who eat on the mountains;
in your midst they commit lewdness.”




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 48 of 385
Leviticus 19:16:

“You shall not go about as a talebearer among your people; nor shall you take a stand
against the life of your neighbor: I am the Lord.”

John 8:44:

“You are of your father the devil, and the desires of your father you want to do. He was a
murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in
him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar and the father of
it.”

Revelation 12:3:

“His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth.”

Isaiah 9:15, 16:

“The elder and honorable, he is the head; the prophet who teaches lies, he is the tail. For the
leaders of this people cause them to err and those who are led by them are destroyed.”

Satan deceived a third of the angels to rebel against God with him:

Revelation 12:9:

“So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who
deceives the whole world; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.”

Ellen White provides a profound glimpse into the issue involved when Satan began his
attack against the law of God:

“Leaving his place in the immediate presence of the Father, Lucifer went forth to diffuse the
spirit of discontent among the angels. He worked with mysterious secrecy, and for a time
concealed his real purpose under an appearance of reverence for God. He began to insinuate
doubts concerning the laws that governed heavenly beings, intimating that though laws
might be necessary for the inhabitants of the worlds, angels, being more exalted, needed no
such restraint, for their own wisdom was a sufficient guide.” PP, p.37

“He reiterated his claim that angels needed no control, but should be left to follow their own
will, which would ever guide them right. He denounced the divine statutes as a restriction of
their liberty and declared that it was his purpose to secure the abolition of law; that, freed
from this restraint, the hosts of heaven might enter upon a more exalted, more glorious
state of existence.” GC, p. 499




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 49 of 385
Sin Enters Planet Earth

All the principles of the Ten Commandments were contained in the command of Genesis
2:15-17. Satan led Eve to disobey God’s commands. When Eve disobeyed the one she was
actually disobeying them all. James wrote that whoever keeps the whole law but stumbles
in one point is guilty of all. Even more notably, Satan used the first post-modern
argument in human history. He convinced Eve that she could be her own source of
ethical and moral decisions that she could rely on her own definition of right and wrong
without depending on God’s objective definition. Let’s take a closer look at Genesis 3:1-5.

Genesis 3:1-5:

“Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made.
And he said to the woman, "Has God indeed said, 'You shall not eat of every tree of the
garden'?" 2 And the woman said to the serpent, "We may eat the fruit of the trees of the
garden; 3 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, 'You
shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die.'" 4 Then the serpent said to the woman,
"You will not surely die. 5 For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be
opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil."

The question is: Who defines good and evil? Does each individual human being provide
his/her own definition from inside or does God provide an objective definition from
outside? The answer is that God, in His law provides the absolute definition of good and
evil. God is the absolute definer of good and evil.

Which Commandments?

Can we be sure that the expression “keep the commandments” in Revelation refers
specifically to the Ten Commandments?

After instructing the rich young ruler to keep the Commandments Jesus then quoted the
last six of the ten:

Matthew 19:17-22:

“So He said to him: "Why do you call Me good? No one is good but One, that is, God. But if you
want to enter into life, keep the commandments." He said to Him, "Which ones?" Jesus said,
"'You shall not murder,' 'You shall not commit adultery,' 'You shall not steal,' 'You shall not
bear false witness,' 'Honor your father and your mother,' and: 'You shall love your neighbor
as yourself.'" The young man said to Him, "All these things I have kept from my youth.
What do I still lack?" Jesus said to him, "If you want to be perfect, go, sell what you have and




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 50 of 385
give to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me." But when the
young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.”

The women who came to the tomb rested on the Sabbath (the fourth) according to the
commandment:

Luke 23:56:

“Then they returned and prepared spices and fragrant oils. And they rested on the Sabbath
according to the commandment.”

The expression “commandment of God” is used to refer to the fifth commandment:

Mark 7:9, 10:

“He said to them, "All too well you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your
tradition. 10 For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother'; and, 'He who curses father
or mother, let him be put to death.'

The word ‘commandment’ is a reference to the tenth commandment

Romans 7:7-12:

“What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not! On the contrary, I would not have
known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law
had said, "You shall not covet." 8 But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment,
produced in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law sin was dead. 9 I was alive
once without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. 10 And the
commandment, which was to bring life, I found to bring death. 11 For sin, taking occasion by
the commandment, deceived me, and by it killed me. 12 Therefore the law is holy, and the
commandment holy and just and good.”

Paul wrote that we must keep the commandments of God:

I Corinthians 7:19:

“Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of
God is what matters.”

Are the words “law” and “commandments” used interchangeably in
Scripture?




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 51 of 385
Exodus 16:28:

“And the Lord said to Moses, "How long do you refuse to keep My commandments and My
laws?”

Exodus 24:12:

“Then the Lord said to Moses: "Come up to Me on the mountain and be there; and I will give
you tablets of stone, and the law and commandments which I have written, that you may
teach them."

God wrote the Ten Commandments but in Deuteronomy we are told that God gave them a
fiery law so commandments and law are interchangeable:

Deuteronomy 4:13:

“So He declared to you His covenant which He commanded you to perform, the Ten
Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone.”

Deuteronomy 33:2:

"The Lord came from Sinai and dawned on them from Seir; He shone forth from Mount Paran
and He came with ten thousands of saints; from His right hand came a fiery law for them.”

Romans 7:7-12:

“What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not! On the contrary, I would not have
known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law
had said, "You shall not covet." But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced
in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law sin was dead. I was alive once without
the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. And the commandment,
which was to bring life, I found to bring death. For sin, taking occasion by the
commandment, deceived me, and by it killed me. Therefore the law is holy, and the
commandment holy and just and good.”

Romans 13:8-10:

“Owe no one anything except to love one another, for he who loves another has fulfilled the
law. For the commandments, "You shall not commit adultery," "You shall not murder," "You
shall not steal," "You shall not bear false witness," "You shall not covet," and if there is any
other commandment, are all summed up in this saying, namely, "You shall love your
neighbor as yourself." Love does no harm to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the
law.”




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 52 of 385
“For whoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. For
He who said, "Do not commit adultery," also said, "Do not murder." Now if you do not commit
adultery, but you do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so do
as those who will be judged by the law of liberty.”

How did Jesus feel about the commandments?

John 14:15, 16:

"If you love Me keep My commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He will give you
another Helper, that He may abide with you forever.”

John 15:10:

“If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love, just as I have kept My Father's
commandments and abide in His love.”

1 John 2:3-5:

“Now by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments. 4 He who says, "I
know Him," and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.”

John 5:3:

“For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are
not burdensome.”

Antichrist Meddles with the Law

One thing stands clear in the Bible. Satan hates the Ten Commandments and he has led the
Christian world to attempt to change them. The little horn thought he could change the
law of God (Daniel 7:25). This system is also called the man of sin and the lawless one (II
Thessalonians 2:4, 9). This change can be seen in the changes that are made in Roman
Catholic Catechisms. Notably, the little horn who ruled for 1260 years thought he could
change the law but at the very end of this period God raised a remnant who would keep
them (Revelation 12:14-17).

2 Thessalonians 2:3-8:

“Let no one deceive you by any means; for that Day will not come unless the falling away
comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts
himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he sits as God in the temple of
God, showing himself that he is God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told
you these things? And now you know what is restraining, that he may be revealed in his own



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 53 of 385
time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work; only He who now restrains will do
so until He is taken out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed whom the Lord
will consume with the breath of His mouth and destroy with the brightness of His coming.”

Daniel 7:25:

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most
High and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.”

Revelation 12:13-16:

“Now when the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who
gave birth to the male Child. 14 But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle, that she
might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and half
a time, from the presence of the serpent. . . And the dragon was enraged with the woman,
and he went to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of
God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.”

Keeping the commandments is in antithesis with the third angel’s message so keeping the
commandments must be the opposite of receiving the mark of the beast.

Revelation 14:11-12:

“And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night,
who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name." 12 Here is
the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith
of Jesus.”

The book of Revelation describes in vivid detail who will be in the city and who will be
outside. Inside are the commandments keepers and outside are the commandment
breakers:

Revelation 22:14, 15:

“Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of
life, and may enter through the gates into the city. 15 But outside are dogs and sorcerers and
sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and whoever loves and practices a lie.”

The translation of this verse has been disputed. The King James translates: “keep the
commandments” and most modern versions translate “wash their robes.” Which is the
correct translation? The book of Revelation elsewhere uses both expressions. Notice the
following texts:




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 54 of 385
Revelation 7:9, 13, 14; Revelation 19:6-8; Revelation 3:5; 3:18

Revelation 21:7-8:

“He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son. But
the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and
all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the
second death."

It is as clear as the noon day sun that those inside the city overcame sin while those outside
led sinful lives.

How do the saints keep the commandments?

Revelation 14:1 says that God’s end time people have the name of the Father in the
forehead. The name represents the character and the character of God is revealed in His
law. They follow the lamb wherever He goes, no lie in our mouths, without spot before
the throne of God. This is not legalistic keeping of the commandments. Writing His law
means that he writes his character and we love righteousness and hate iniquity and the
law is in our hearts (Psalm 40:6-8).

Revelation 14:1:

“Then I looked, and behold, a Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one hundred and
forty-four thousand, having His Father's name written on their foreheads.”

“In biblical thought a name is not a mere label of identification; it is an expression of the
essential nature of its bearer. A man’s name reveals his character. Adam was able to give
names to the beasts and birds (Gen. 2:20) because, as Milton says, he understood their
nature.” Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible, volume 3, p. 500-501

Genesis 27:36:

“And Esau said: "Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times.
He took away my birthright, and now look, he has taken away my blessing!"

I Samuel 25:25:

“Please, let not my lord regard this scoundrel Nabal. For as his name is, so is he: Nabal is his
name, and folly is with him!”

Genesis 27:36

“And Esau said: "Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times.
He took away my birthright, and now look, he has taken away my blessing!"


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 55 of 385
1 Samuel 25:25

“Please, let not my lord regard this scoundrel Nabal. For as his name is, so is he: Nabal is his
name, and folly is with him!”

Exodus 33:18-19

“And he said, "Please, show me Your glory." 19 Then He said, "I will make all My goodness
pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to
whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion."

Ezekiel 36:26-28:

“I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will take the heart of stone out
of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. 27 I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to
walk in My statutes, and you will keep My judgments and do them.”

Psalm 40:6-8:

“Sacrifice and offering You did not desire; My ears You have opened. Burnt offering and sin
offering You did not require. 7 Then I said, "Behold, I come; in the scroll of the book it is
written of me. 8 I delight to do Your will, O my God, and Your law is within my heart."

Jeremiah 31:31-34:

"Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house
of Israel and with the house of Judah—not according to the covenant that I made with their
fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, My
covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the
covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My
law in their minds, and write it on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be
My people.”

It does no good to have them posted in courtrooms if they are not engraved on the heart.
Righteousness comes from inside out and not from outside in. Force creates martyrs or
hypocrites. Big debate as to whether this is a Christian nation. It sure doesn’t look like it.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 56 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


  LESSON #5 – COMMENTS ON REVELATION 13:1-10
An Apostate System

Today we are going discuss a system that is portrayed in the Bible as the antichrist. This
system is called the little horn, the beast, the abomination of desolation, the king of the north,
the harlot and the man of sin. We are not going to talk about the individuals that are in the
system but rather the corporate, organizational system itself. There are many sincere
persons in this system. They no doubt love the Lord and serve Him to the best of their
knowledge and ability. But the system is corrupt and irreversible.

You might say: “How can we make a distinction between the individuals that are in the system
and the system itself if the individuals belong to the system?”

Perhaps the best explanation is found in the similar case of the Jewish nation in the days of
Christ. At that time, the corporate church composed of ministers and theologians had
become corrupt. The governing Sanhedrin on several occasions pronounced the death
sentence against Jesus. The priesthood of the nation was also corrupt. Jesus said that the
nation was caught up in a rigid ritualism while its heart was far away from the Lord. In the
midst of this apostasy Jesus was intent on bringing revival and reformation. Initially Jesus
came to lost sheep of the house of Israel in the hopes that they would receive Him. He had no
intention of calling people out of Judaism. But as His ministry reached its climax, the Jewish
nation turned against His message and mission with an infidel hardihood.

Finally, Jesus, in a scathing but loving rebuke to these leaders, pronounced woes upon them
(see Matthew 23). He referred to them hypocrites, murderers, a generation of vipers,
serpents and asked how they could escape the condemnation of hell. Thus the Jewish
church became irreversibly apostate and Jesus told the leadership that the kingdom would
be taken from them and given to the Gentiles (Matthew 23:43).




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 57 of 385
But not all who belonged to the system were apostate. There were many sincere individuals
who were faithful children of God within the system. We think of people like eleven of the
twelve apostles, Nicodemus, Joseph of Arimatea, the wise Gamaliel and later on Saul of
Tarsus. In Acts 6:7 we are informed that large numbers of the priests became followers of
Jesus after the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. In fact, on the day of Pentecost, three thousand
individuals were baptized into the faith and became members of the Christian Church, all of
them Jews.

You see, the system and those that are within the system is not the same thing. Many of the
people who belong to the system are as corrupt as the system but there are also many who are
in the system, both leaders and lay people, who have not bowed the knee to Baal. With this in
mind let us begin our study of Revelation 13:1-10.

Revelation 13:1:

“Then I stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising up out of the sea, having seven
heads and ten horns, and on his horns ten crowns, and on his heads a blasphemous name.”

The Symbols

      Sand of the sea (the beasts of Daniel 7:1, 2 also came up from the sea. The turbulent
       wind-tossed sea represents warring nations—Isaiah 17:12, 13).
      Seven heads (the seven heads on the single beast represent stages of the total
       career of the nation’s beginning with Babylon and ending with the resurrected
       papacy. For example, while the leopard with four heads in Daniel 7 presents the
       total career of Greece without any time distinctions, Daniel 8:3-5, 20 expands
       upon Daniel 7 by explaining that Greece would be ruled first by a notable horn and
       then, after the notable horn was broken, by four horns. A careful study of Revelation
       12, 13, 17 clearly indicates that the heads rule one at a time in historical succession.
      Ten horns: The horns are not disbursed among the seven heads but rather are all
       on the same head. Our study will reveal that the ten horns are on heads # 5, 6, 7.
      Blasphemous name (this blasphemous name has a mysterious number whose total
       is 666.

The Backdrop of Daniel 7

Revelation 13:2:

“Now the beast which I saw was like a leopard, his feet were like the feet of a bear, and his
mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power, his throne, and great
authority.”




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 58 of 385
One is struck by the fact that the identical beasts of Daniel 7 are mentioned but in reverse
order. The reason for the reversal of order is that Daniel is living in the period of the lion
(Babylon) and is looking forward while John is living in the period of the dragon (the
Roman Empire) and is looking backwards.

It has long been recognized by students of Bible prophecy that the four beasts of Daniel 7
represent four consecutive kingdoms that arose in the course of history beginning in the
days of king Nebuchadnezzar (see the parallel prophecy in Daniel 2 that proves this beyond
any doubt). History reveals that the lion represents the kingdom of Babylon (605-539 BC),
the bear symbolizes the kingdom of the Medes and Persians (539-331 BC), the leopard
denotes Greece (331-168 BC) and the dragon beast represents Rome (168 BC – 476 AD).

The book of Daniel itself identifies the first three kingdoms (Daniel 5; Daniel 8:20, 21)

Four Stages of Rome

What has not received sufficient attention is the fact that the fourth beast (the Roman
Empire) is described as having four consecutive periods of dominion.

Stage #1: The United Roman Empire (168 BC-476 AD)
Daniel 7:23-24:

"Thus he said: 'The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different
from all other kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, trample it and break it in pieces.”

Stage #2: The Divided Roman Empire (476 AD-538 AD)
Daniel 7:24:

“The ten horns are ten kings who shall arise from this kingdom.”

The text is clear. In order for the ten horns to arise from this kingdom, the kingdom must
have already existed before they arose. History proves that the Roman Empire was
carved up and divided among the barbarian tribes who invaded from the north (more on
this in a few moments).

Stage #3: Papal Rome during the 1260 Years (538 AD-1798 AD)
Daniel 7:24, 25:

“And another shall rise after them; he shall be different from the first ones, and shall subdue
three kings. He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 59 of 385
of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given
into his hand for a time and times and half a time.”

Ten Characteristics help us identify this power:

   1. It arose to power after the ten had come up (Daniel 7:23, 24)
   2. It arose among the ten (Daniel 7:8)
   3. It arose from the head of the dragon (7:23, 24)

“Within three centuries, the Roman Church had transformed the administrative
organization of the Roman Empire into an ecclesiastical system of bishoprics, dioceses,
monasteries, colonies, garrisons, schools, libraries, administrative centers, envoys,
representatives, courts of justice, and a criminal system of intricate laws all under the direct
control of the pope. His Roman Palace, the Lateran, became the new Senate. The new
senators were the cardinals. The bishops who lived in Rome and the priests and deacons
helped the pope to administer this new imperium.” (Malachi Martin, The Decline and Fall of
the Roman Church, p. 105

“The Roman Church in this way privily pushed itself into the place of the Roman World-
Empire, of which it is the actual continuation; the empire has not perished, but has only
undergone a transformation. . . That is no mere ‘clever remark,’ but the recognition of the
true state of the matter historically, and the most appropriate and fruitful way of describing
the character of this Church. It still governs the nations. It is a political creation, and as
imposing as a World-Empire, because [it is] the continuation of the Roman Empire. The
Pope, who calls himself ‘King’ and ‘Pontifex Maximus,’ is Caesar’s successor.’” (Adolph
Harnack, What is Christianity? pp. 269-270)

“The Empire was falling into decay. The Barbarians knew that its life was failing, that the old
organism was worn out, and they hastened to take possession of the remains. From every
direction they came for the spoils. The Saxons and the Angles settled in Great Britain; the
Franks invaded Northern Gaul; the Visigoths made Spain and the region south of the Loire
their own; the Burgundians took possession of the upper valley of the Rhone; the Vandals
made conquests in Africa. The Ostrogoths and Lombards were waiting for their turn to
come. Among these new invaders, some were heretics and others were pagans. What is to
become of the Church? Are its days numbered, and is the Empire to bring it down as its
companion into an open tomb? No, the Church will not descend into the tomb. It will survive
the Empire. It will have to pass through days of distress. It will witness calamity after
calamity, ruins heaped upon ruins. But in the midst of the greatest sadness, it will receive
precious consolations. One after another, these barbarian peoples will submit to its laws, and
will count it a glory to be the Church’s children. The frontiers of the Church will be extended;



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 60 of 385
its institutions, for a moment shaken by the Barbarians, will be consolidated, developed, and
will adapt themselves to their surroundings. The papacy, most sorely tried of all, will make a
new advance. At length a second empire will arise, and of this empire the Pope will be the
master--more than this, he will be the master of Europe. He will dictate his orders to kings
who will obey them.” (Joseph Turmel, The Latin Church in the Middle Ages, p. v, vi

“The all-conquering barbarians were storming the gates of Augustine’s city when the saint
died in 430. The North African town of Hippo was one of the last imperial outposts to be
attacked. Rome had already gone under. Only four years before, St. Augustine’s City of God
had laid the theological groundwork for the church to step into the void left by the
collapsing Roman Empire.” (Douglas Auchincloss, City of God and Man, Time, 76 (December
12, 1960), p. 64

“The removal of the capital of the Empire from Rome to Constantinople in 330 left the
Western Church, practically free from imperial power, to develop its own form of
organization. The Bishop of Rome, in the seat of the Caesars, was now the greatest man in
the West, and was soon forced to become the political as well as the spiritual head. To the
Western world Rome was still the political capital--hence the whole habit of mind, all
ambition, pride, and sense of glory, and every social prejudice favored the evolution of the
great city into the ecclesiastical capital. Civil as well as religious disputes were referred to
the successor of Peter for settlement. Again and again, when barbarians attacked Rome, he
was compelled to actually assume military leadership. Eastern Emperors frequently
recognized the high claims of the Popes in order to gain their assistance. It is not difficult to
understand, how, under these responsibilities, the primacy of the Bishop of Rome, established
in the pre-Constantine period, was emphasized and magnified after 313 [Edict of Milan]. The
importance of this fact must not be overlooked. The organization of the Church was thus put
on the same divine basis as the revelation of Christianity. This idea once accepted led
inevitably to the medieval Papacy.” (Alexander Clarence Flick, The Rise of the Mediaeval
Church), pp. 168, 169)

“During the whole medieval period there was in Rome a single spiritual and temporal
authority [the papacy] exercising powers which in the end exceeded those that had ever lain
within the grasp of the Roman emperor.” (R. W. Southern, Western Society and the Church
in the Middle Ages, volume 2), pp. 24-25

“The papacy is no other than the ghost of the deceased Roman Empire, sitting crowned
upon the grave thereof.” (Thomas Hobbes, as quoted in, Dave Hunt, A Woman Rides the
Beast, p. 95)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 61 of 385
“Christian Rome was the legitimate successor of pagan Rome . . . Christ had triumphed
[and] Rome was ready to extend its sway to the heavens themselves.” (W. H. C. Frend, The
Rise of Christianity, p. 773)

“The Roman Christian Church was a church of world-wide importance and power, and her
bishop the most influential. Out of the ruins of political Rome arose the great moral empire
in the ‘giant form’ of the Roman Church. In the marvelous rise of the Roman Church is seen in
strong relief the majestic office of the Bishop of Rome.” (Alexander Clarence Flick, The Rise of
the Mediaeval Church, p. 150)

“When the Western empire fell into the hands of the barbarians, the Roman bishop was the
only surviving heir of this imperial past, or, in the well-known dictum of Hobbes, ‘the ghost
of the deceased Roman empire, sitting crowned upon the grave thereof.’” (Philip Schaff,
History of the Christian Church, vol. 3, p. 287)

“Long before the fall of Rome, there had begun to grow up within the Roman Empire an
ecclesiastical state, which was shaping itself upon the imperial model. This spiritual
empire, like the secular empire, possessed a hierarchy of officers, of which deacons, priests or
presbyters, and bishops were the most important . . . Another consequence of the fall of the
Roman power in the west was the development of the Papacy. In the absence of an
Emperor [2 Thessalonians 2] in the west, the popes rapidly gained influence and power and
soon built up an ecclesiastical empire that in some respects took the place of the old
empire.” (Myers, General History for Colleges, pp. 348, 316)

“St. Thomas . . . says that the Roman Empire has not ceased, but is changed from the
temporal into the spiritual . . . It was, then, the Apostolic Church, which, spreading throughout
the nations, already combined together by the power of the heathen empire of Rome,
quickened them with a new life . . . the temporal power in the old heathen empire of Rome,
and the spiritual power in the supernatural kingdom of God met together . . . these two
powers were blended and fused together [Daniel 2:41]; they became one authority, the
emperor ruling from his throne within the sphere of his earthly jurisdiction, and the Supreme
Pontiff ruling likewise from a throne of a higher sovereignty over the nations. . . the material
power which once reigned in Rome [was] consecrated and sanctified by the investiture of the
Vicar of Jesus Christ with temporal sovereignty over the city where he dwelt. And now for
these twelve hundred years the peace, the perpetuity and faithfulness of the Christian
civilization of Europe, has been owing solely in its principle to this consecration of the power
and authority of the great empire of Rome, taken up of old, perpetuated, preserved, as I
have said, by the salt which had been sprinkled from heaven, and continued in the person of
the Supreme Pontiff, and in that order of Christian civilization of which he has been the



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 62 of 385
creator.” (Cardinal Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 123-128)
Bold is mine
“If we extend our view over the ruins of the Western Empire, such is the spectacle that
meets us on every side . . . the Pax Romana has ceased; it is universal confusion. But
wherever a bishop holds his court, religion protects all that is left of the ancient order. A
new Rome ascends slowly above the horizon. It is the heir of the religion which it has
overthrown; it assumes the outward splendors of the Caesars . . . The emperor is no more . . .
But the Pontifex Maximus abides; he is now the Vicar of Christ, offering the old civilization to
the tribes of the north. He converts them to his creed, and they serve him as their Father and
Judge supreme. This is the Papal Monarchy, which in its power and its decline overshadows
the history of Europe for a thousand years.” (W. F. Barry, The Papal Monarchy, pp. 45, 46)

“As Rome’s role in pagan history came to an end, she was destined to play another, a sacred
one, in Christian history . . . Rome’s part in ecclesiastical history had begun. . . Thus a
Christian Rome, destined, like its pagan predecessor on the Palatine, to conquer a large part
of the earth, gradually arose on Vatican Hill . . . While today the Palatine [the hill of the
Roman Emperors’ palaces] is in ruins, St. Peter’s still draws worshipers from all parts of the
world.” (Walter Woodburn Hyde, Paganism to Christianity in the Roman Empire, pp. 6-7)

   4. The little horn would uproot three horns (7:8)

   5. The horn would speak great words against Almighty God (7:8, 25)

   6. The horn would persecute the saints of God(7:21, 25)

   7. The horn would rule for 3.5 times (7:25)

   8. The horn would think that it could change God’s law (7:25)

   9. The horn would think that he could change God’s times (7:25)

   10. The horn would lose its power and then recover it before the end (7:26, 27)

These characteristic clearly prove that Stage #3 was the period of dominion of ecclesiastical
or papal Rome.

Stage #4: Papal Rome restored to power sometime after the three and a
half times and before the second coming of Jesus
Daniel 7:26, 27:

“'But the court shall be seated, and they shall take away his [the little horn’s] dominion, to
consume and destroy it forever. Then the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 63 of 385
kingdoms under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people, the saints of the Most High. His
kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him.'”

The fourth stage of the fourth beast is implicit in Daniel 7. If the little horn’s dominion will
be taken away and destroyed when Jesus comes, then it must be ruling the world again at
that time. This means that the papacy’s career did not end when it lost its dominion at the
end of the three and one half prophetic times. It will be alive, well and ruling the world
again when Jesus comes and will be destroyed by the brightness of His coming (2
Thessalonians 2:8, 9)

Summarizing the four stages of the fourth beast we have:

      The fourth beast alone: Imperial Rome (168 BC-476 AD)
      The fourth beast with ten horns: Divided Rome (476-538 AD)
      The fourth beast with the little horn ruling for three and one half prophetic years:
       Papal Rome’s first stage (538-1798 AD)
      The fourth beast when the little horn is restored to power: Papal Rome’s second
       stage (still future)

Revelation 13:1-10 Parallels Daniel 7

Revelation 13:1, 2 is clearly linked with Daniel 7. The same sequence of powers appears
in both passages:

Revelation 13:1, 2:

“Now the beast which I saw was like a leopard, his feet were like the feet of a bear, and his
mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power, his throne, and great
authority.”

Like the dragon beast of Daniel 7, the dragon beast (fourth beast) of Revelation 12-13 has
four consecutive stages of dominion:

      Imperial Rome: The dragon which sought to kill Jesus (12:1-3)
      Divided Rome: The dragon had ten horns (12:3)
      Papal Rome: The beast which received its power, throne and great authority from
       the dragon and then ruled for 42 months (13:5)
      Papal Rome Revived: The beast which will rule the world once again after the
       deadly wound is healed (13:3)

It will be noticed that the beast that received its power, its throne and great authority from
the dragon, is in the same place in the order and performed the same actions for the




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 64 of 385
same time period as the little horn. Thus the little horn and the beast represent the very
same power:




Revelation 13:5, 7:

“And he was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and he was given
authority to continue for forty-two months. It was granted to him to make war with the
saints and to overcome them. And authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and
nation.”

The Fourth Stage of the Dragon Beast

It is important to underline that while the deadly wound and the fourth stage of the
dragon beast was only implied in Daniel 7, it is made explicit in Revelation 13. According
to Revelation 13, after the beast ruled for 42 months (Revelation 13:5) it received a deadly
wound (Revelation 13:10) but the deadly wound will be healed (Revelation 13:3) and it
will rule again as it did in the past. In between the deadly wound and it healing, the beast
is convalescing with a deadly wound.

“The influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is still far
from being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power. "I saw one of
his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world
wondered after the beast" Verse 3. GC, p. 579
“When our nation [the United States] shall so abjure the principles of its government as to
enact a Sunday law, Protestantism will in this act join hands with popery; it will be nothing
else that giving life [which means that it must have had a deadly wound] to the tyranny
which has long been eagerly watching its opportunity to spring again [which means that
the active despotism that existed before died only to live again] into active [which
means that for a period the tyranny was inactive] despotism.” Testimonies for the
Church, volume 5, p. 712

Revelation 13:3:

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed and all the world marveled and followed the beast.”

      Only one head of the beast is wounded, the head that ruled during the 42 months
      The beast has seven heads but they rule consecutively one at a time. When we
       study Revelation 17 we will find that at this point in the prophecy, five of the heads


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 65 of 385
    had already been wounded and killed. At the moment when John saw this beast,
    the head had been freshly wounded. Whereas the other heads all died to never live
    again, this head will live again.
   What is the meaning of the expression “as if it had been mortally wounded”? It is the
    same expression that is used to describe Jesus as the lamb “as though it had been
    slain.”
   Ellen White on repeated occasions stated that the entire world would follow and
    worship the beast:

    “History will be repeated. False religion will be exalted. The first day of the week, a
    common working day, possessing no sanctity whatever, will be set up as was the image
    of Babylon. All nations and tongues and peoples will be commanded to worship this
    spurious sabbath . . . The decree enforcing the worship of this day is to go forth to all
    the world.” 7BC 976 (1897) Last Day Events, pp. 134, 135

    “As America, the land of religious liberty, shall unite with the papacy in forcing the
    conscience and compelling men to honor the false sabbath, the people of every
    country on the globe will be led to follow her example.” Testimonies for the Church,
    volume 6, p. 18

    “The Sabbath question is to be the issue in the great final conflict in which all the
    world will act a part.” Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, p. 352

    “Foreign nations will follow the example of the United States. Though she leads out,
    yet the same crisis will come upon our people in all parts of the world.” Testimonies
    for the Church, volume 6, p. 395

    “The substitution of the false for the true is the last act in the drama. When this
    substitution becomes universal God will reveal Himself. When the laws of men are
    exalted above the laws of God, when the powers of this earth try to force men to keep
    the first day of the week, know that the time has come for God to work.” Last Day
    Events, p. 135

    “The substitution of the laws of men for the law of God, the exaltation, by merely
    human authority, of Sunday in place of the Bible Sabbath, is the last act in the drama.
    When this substitution becomes universal God will reveal Himself. He will arise in His
    majesty to shake terribly the earth.” Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, p. 141

    “The wicked . . . declared that they had the truth, that miracles were among them, that
    angels from heaven talked with them and walked with them, that great power and
    signs and wonders were performed among them, and that this was the temporal




     “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 66 of 385
      millennium that they had been expecting so long. The whole world was converted and
      in harmony with the Sunday law.” Last Day Events, p. 136

      “The whole world is to be stirred with enmity against Seventh-day Adventists because
      they will not yield homage to the papacy by honoring Sunday, the institution of this
      antichristian power.” Testimonies to Ministers p. 37

      “Those who trample upon God's law make human laws which they will force the people
      to accept. Men will devise and counsel and plan what they will do. The whole world
      keeps Sunday, they say, and why should not this people, who are so few in number, do
      according to the laws of the land?” Last Day Events, p. 136

      “The so-called Christian world is to be the theater of great and decisive actions. Men
      in authority [in the Christian world] will enact laws controlling the conscience, after
      the example of the papacy. Babylon will make all nations drink of the wine of the
      wrath of her fornication. Every nation will be involved. Of this time John the Revelator
      declares: [Revelation 18:3-7; 17:13, 14, quoted]. "These have one mind." There will be a
      universal bond of union, one great harmony, a confederacy of Satan's forces. ‘And
      shall give their power and strength unto the beast.’ Thus is manifested the same
      arbitrary, oppressive power against religious liberty—freedom to worship God
      according to the dictates of conscience—as was manifested by the papacy, when in the
      past it persecuted those who dared to refuse to conform with the religious rites and
      ceremonies of Romanism.” Last Day Events, pp. 136, 137

      “In the great conflict between faith and unbelief the whole Christian world will be
      involved.” Review and Herald February 7, 1893. Last Day Events, p. 137

      “As the Sabbath has become the special point of controversy throughout Christendom
      and religious and secular authorities have combined to enforce the observance of the
      Sunday, the persistent refusal of a small minority to yield to the popular demand will
      make them objects of universal execration.” GC, p. 615

Crucial Questions

     Which weapon did the beast use to slay the saints?
     Which weapon gave the beast its mortal wound?
     What does the sword symbolize?
     How and when did the beast acquire the sword that it used to kill?
     What is meant by the deadly wound?
     Was the deadly wound healed in 1801 or 1929?
     What presently keeps the deadly wound from healing?
     When, how and by whom will the wound be healed?


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 67 of 385
The Weapon that Wounded the Beast

Revelation 13:10 explains that the deadly wound that ended the dragon’s third stage of
rule was given with the sword. When the sword wounded the beast it was led into
captivity. While the beast is wounded it is in captivity and when its wound is healed it is
freed from captivity. While it was wounded it was not free to wreak havoc like it did
during the period of its dominion.

Revelation 13:10: A description of the deadly wound and the captivity of the beast:

“He who leads into captivity shall go into captivity; he who kills with the sword must be
killed with the sword.”

Note: Someone might object: “The text does not say that the beast killed with the sword
and must be killed with the sword; the text uses the indefinite: ‘he who.’”

But a comparison with Revelation 13:14 leaves no doubt that it was the beast that killed
with the sword and was mortally wounded by it:

“And he deceives those who dwell on the earth by those signs which he was granted to do in
the sight of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast
who was wounded by the sword and lived.”

What does the Sword Represent?

Ephesians 6:17: Does the sword represent the Bible?

“And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.”

Whenever I ask people what the sword of Revelation 13 represents they generally answer:
“It represents the Word of God.” It is true that the sword can represent the Bible. However,
the sword that wounded the beast in Revelation 13:10 was not the Bible. It is quite
obvious that the papacy did not use the Bible to slay the saints!!

The Sword that Wounded the Beast

It is important to remember that in the Bible, symbols are flexible. That is to say, they do
not always mean the same thing—the context must dictate their meaning. For example, a
lion in Scripture can represent Christ, Satan, Babylon or Judah. Leaven can represent sin
but it can also represent the implantation of the Holy Spirit who brings about phenomenal
growth in the church. The expression ‘sons of God’ can represent angels (Job 1:8) but also



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 68 of 385
God’s faithful followers (Genesis 6:1, 2; Romans 8:13). Thus the sword can represent the
Bible but it can also symbolize the punitive power of the state to punish civil and
criminal transgressions.

The crucial question then is this: Which sword did the papacy use to persecute God’s
saints during its period of supremacy? The answer is found in Romans 13:1-4:

“Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities for there is no authority except from
God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore whoever resists the
authority resists the ordinance of God and those who resist will bring judgment on
themselves for rulers are not a terror to good works but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of
the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same for he is God's
minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does not bear the sword in vain;
for he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil.”

The sword that is mentioned in Romans 13 threatens civil penalties (incarceration,
confiscation of goods, fines, death) against transgressors. This passage makes it clear that
in the time of the apostle Paul this particular sword did not belong to the church but rather
to the Roman state. This sword is punitive, not persuasive.

It is clear that the sword that wounded the beast at the end of the 1260 years cannot be
the Bible because the text explicitly affirms that the very sword that the beast used to kill
the saints during the 1260 years would be used to kill to give it the deadly wound at the
end of this period. It would be ludicrous to say that the papacy used the Bible during the
1260 years as a weapon to kill dissenters (rather it forbade the Bible and kept it in an
unknown tongue) so the symbol of the sword in the context of Revelation 13 must
represent something different than it does in Ephesians 6:17.

God Established Both

It is important to underline that God has established the legitimacy of both church and
state. In God’s order they both have their legitimate function and place.

Jesus announced that He would build His church upon Himself when He said to Peter:
“upon this rock I will build My church.” The church is Christ’s spiritual kingdom.

But Romans 13 also makes it very clear that God established the state—the apostle Paul
even refers to the Roman state as God’s minister. But the state is God’s minister to punish
violations of civil and criminal law, not religious law. Romans 13:1-10 explicitly affirms
that God established the state to preserve the civil order of society. When Pilate claimed
that he had the power to free Jesus, He told him ‘you would have no power over me if it had
not been given to you from above’.



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 69 of 385
Jesus and the Sword

The evidence shows that Jesus refused to allow His followers (the incipient church of that
age) to use the sword of force to defend His kingdom.

When the temple guard came to arrest Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, Peter drew his
sword and cut off the high priest servant’s ear. Peter, who was purportedly the first Pope,
was using the temporal sword of force to defend His Master’s spiritual kingdom. During
the 1260 years, the papacy acted in a similar way by burning heretics and by organizing
the crusades to defend and recover the holy sites that had been lost to the Muslims.

Did Jesus encourage Peter’s behavior? Did he commend Peter for using the literal
sword to defend His spiritual kingdom? Did He rebuke His other disciples for not
following Peter’s ‘laudable’ example? Absolutely not! Jesus soundly rebuked Peter in words
strikingly similar to those of Revelation 13:10:

“But Jesus said to him, ‘Put your sword in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by
the sword.’” (Matthew 26:52)

A few hours later when Pilate asked Jesus if He was a king, Jesus promptly replied:

"My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My servants would
fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is not from here."
(John 18:36)

Thus Jesus recognized the legitimate existence of two kingdoms each with its own sword
and refused to allow His followers to employ the temporal sword to establish or to
defend His spiritual kingdom.

How did the Papacy Obtain the Sword?

Between the year 300 AD and the year 476 AD hordes of barbarian tribes from the north
invaded and carved up the Roman Empire. Romulus Augustulus, the last emperor of the
Western Roman Empire was deposed in the year 476 AD. Without an emperor, the Empire
was thrown into turmoil and confusion. These barbarian incursions into the Roman Empire
turned it upside down and left it without a civil ruler who could preserve law and order.
In the midst of this chaotic situation, the Bishop of Rome was enticed to take the reins of
civil power and bring about civil order in the empire. As a result, the bishop of Rome
assumed a new role—he was not only the spiritual leader of the church but also became
the temporal ruler of the state.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 70 of 385
Cardinal Manning

Cardinal Henry Edward Manning described the manner in which the Roman Pontiff
originally gained civil power in the Roman Empire. When the barbarians invaded the
Roman Empire and tore it apart Manning explains:

“Now the abandonment of Rome was the liberation of the pontiffs. Whatsoever claims to
obedience the emperors may have made, and whatsoever compliance the Pontiff may have
yielded, the whole previous relation, anomalous, and annulled again and again by the vices
and outrages of the emperors, was finally dissolved by a higher power. The providence of God
permitted a succession of irruptions, Gothic, Lombard, and Hungarian, to desolate Italy, and
to efface from it every remnant of the empire. The pontiffs found themselves alone, the
sole fountains of order, peace, law, and safety. And from the hour of this providential
liberation, when, by a divine intervention, the chains fell off from the hands of the successor
of St. Peter, as once before from his own, no sovereign has ever reigned in Rome except the
Vicar of Jesus Christ.” (Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ, Preface, pp. xxviii, xxix. London: Burns and Lambert, 1862)

Manning further explains:

“It [the papacy] waited until such a time as God should break its bonds asunder, and should
liberate it from subjection to civil powers, and enthrone it in the possession of a temporal
sovereignty of its own.” Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ (London: Burns & Lambert, second edition, 1862), pp. 11-13.

What Manning is saying is that when the civil power of Rome was removed by the
barbarians, the bishop of Rome filled the vacuum and became the arbiter in civil affairs
as well as in religious. Remarkably, Manning describes this assumption of civil power by
the bishop of Rome with expressions such as “breaking bonds asunder”, and “chains
falling off”, terminology that is reminiscent of 2 Thessalonians 2 to which we must now
turn. When the Empire fell apart and Constantine moved the see of the empire to
Constantinople, the dragon had given the beast ‘his power, his throne and great authority’
(Revelation 13:2)

Paul’s Mysterious ‘Restrainer’

In cryptic language, the apostle Paul had already referred to the moment when the civil
power of the Roman Empire would be given over to papal Rome. In 2 Thessalonians 2:6, 7
the apostle referred to the removal of the mysterious restrainer of 2 Thessalonians 2:6, 7:




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 71 of 385
“And now you know what [neuter: the civil power of the Roman Empire] is restraining,
that he [the papacy] may be revealed in his own time. For the mystery of lawlessness is
already at work; only He [masculine: the emperor] who now restrains will do so until He is
taken out of the way.”

The early church Fathers were practically unanimous in the opinion that the ‘restrainer’
was a reference to the Roman Empire in general and the emperors in particular. In verse
5 the apostle refers to what was restraining (using the neuter article to katechon) but in
verse 7 he refers to who was restraining (using the masculine article ho katechon). By his
use of language, Paul indicates that the church at Thessalonica knew who the restrainer
was and what was restraining. And yet Paul wrote in veiled, cryptic language. Why didn’t
Paul just come out and write openly that the Roman Empire was the restrainer that would
be taken out of the way?

The answer is obvious. If Paul had said this openly the Roman Empire would have had
grounds to accuse Paul of sedition. So Paul had to be cautious about the way he referred to
this matter. Dispensationalists and some Seventh-day Adventists (including the Andrews
University Study Bible) describe the restrainer as the Holy Spirit. But if this were true,
then why would there be any need for Paul to be so cautious? It is clear that Paul could not
define the ‘restrainer’ openly. It was not necessary to do so because the Thessalonians
knew what he was talking about.

It will be noticed that in Cardinal Manning’s remark, the fall of the Roman Empire led to the
‘liberation’ of the Roman Pontiff. That is to say, before taking over the reins of civil power
the Pontiff was restrained or ‘in captivity’, so to speak. Thus the fall of the Roman Empire
and the removal of the emperor which allowed the papacy to take the reins of civil power is
described by Manning as chains falling off the hands of the successor of St. Peter. The
inevitable conclusion we reach from Manning’s words is that the fall of the empire removed
the restraint of the secular power from the Bishop of Rome so that he could ascend to civil
power.

The Ante-Nicene Fathers

Now let us turn to the writings of the early church Fathers to see how they understood the
‘restrainer’. Let us begin with Tertullian (160-240 AD):

“’For the mystery of iniquity doth already work; only he who now hinders must hinder, until
he be taken out of the way.’ What obstacle is there but the Roman state, the falling away of
which, by being scattered into ten kingdoms, shall introduce Antichrist upon (its own
ruins)? ‘And then shall be revealed the wicked one.’” ‘On the Resurrection of the Flesh,’
chapter 24; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. 3, p. 563 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1908]



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 72 of 385
Tertullian also wrote:

“The very end of all things threatening dreadful woes is only retarded by the continued
existence of the Roman Empire.” (‘Apology,’ chapter 32; Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 3, p. 43)

Now notice the words of Lactantius (early fourth century):

“The subject itself declares that the fall and ruin of the world will shortly take place; except
that while the city of Rome remains, it appears that nothing of this kind is to be feared. But
when that capital of the world shall have fallen, and shall have begun to be a street, which
the Sibyls say shall come to pass, who can doubt that the end has now arrived to the affairs of
men and the whole world? It is that city, that only, which still sustains all things.” (‘The
Divine Institutes,’ book 7, chapter 25; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. 7, p. 220)

Cyril of Jerusalem agrees (318-386 AD):

“But this aforesaid Antichrist is to come when the times of the Roman Empire shall have
been fulfilled, and the end of the world is drawing near. There shall rise up together ten
kings of the Romans, reigning in different parts perhaps, but all about the same time; and
after those an eleventh, the Antichrist, who by his magical craft shall seize upon the Roman
power; and of the kings who reigned before him, ‘three he shall humble,’ and the remaining
seven he shall keep in subjection to himself.” (‘Catechetical Lectures’ Section 15, on II
Thessalonians 2:4; Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. 7, p. 108 [New York: The Christian
Literature Company, 1895])

Next we present the testimony of Ambrose (died in 398 AD):

“After the falling or decay of the Roman Empire, Antichrist shall appear.” (Quoted in,
Bishop Thomas Newton, Dissertations on the Prophecies, p. 463 [London: B. Blake, 1840])

Next in line is Chrysostom (died in 407 AD):

“When the Roman Empire is taken out of the way, then he [the Antichrist] shall come. And
naturally. For as long as the fear of this empire lasts, no one will willingly exalt himself, but
when that is dissolved, he will attack the anarchy, and endeavor to seize upon the
government both of man and of God.” ‘Homily IV on 2 Thessalonians 2:6-9,’Nicene and Post-
Nicene Fathers’, vol. XIII, p. 389 [New York: Charles Scribner’s and Sons, 1905]

Finally we will quote from Jerome (died 420 AD):




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 73 of 385
“He that letteth is taken out of the way, and yet we do not realize that Antichrist is near.”
(Letter to Ageruchia, written about 409 A. D. Letter 123, section 16; Nicene and Post-
Nicene Fathers, vol. VI, p. 236 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1912]).

Other Roman Catholic Theologians

Scores of church historians have confirmed the assessment of the church fathers:

“Long ages ago, when Rome through the neglect of the Western emperors was left to the
mercy of the barbarous hordes, the Romans turned to one figure for aid and protection,
and asked him to rule them; and thus, in this simple manner, the best title of all to kingly
right, commenced the temporal sovereignty of the popes. And meekly stepping to the
throne of Caesar, the Vicar of Christ took up the scepter to which the emperors and kings of
Europe were to bow in reverence through so many ages.” James P. Conroy, American
Catholic Quarterly Review, April, 1911.

“Under the Roman Empire [Stage #1] the popes had no temporal powers. But when the
Roman Empire had disintegrated and its place had been taken by a number of rude,
barbarous kingdoms [Stage #2], the Roman Catholic Church not only became independent
of the states in religious affairs but dominated secular affairs as well [Stage #3].” Carl
Conrad Eckhardt, The Papacy and World Affairs (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1937), p. 1

Church historian, R. W. Southern further explains the relationship between the papacy and
the state during the Middle Ages:

“During the whole medieval period there was in Rome a single spiritual and temporal
authority [the papacy] exercising powers which in the end exceeded those that had ever lain
within the grasp of the Roman emperor.” (R. W. Southern, Western Society and the Church
in the Middle Ages, volume 2), pp. 24-25

Church historian John N. Figgis adds his testimony:

“[In] the Middle Ages the church was not a State, it was the State; or rather, the civil
authority (for a separate society was not recognized), was merely the police department of
the Church.” John N. Figgis, From Gerson to Grotius, p. 4

This idea of the church ruling in temporal as well as in spiritual affairs was fleshed out in
1302 when Pope Boniface VIII wrote a significant bull (personal letter) titled Unam
Sanctam.

“We are informed by the texts of the gospels that in this [Roman Catholic] Church and in its
power are two swords; namely, the spiritual and the temporal. Both, therefore, are in the



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 74 of 385
power of the Church, that is to say, the spiritual and the material sword, but the former [the
spiritual] is to be administered for the Church but the latter [the temporal] by the Church;
the former in the hands of the priest; the latter by the hands of kings and soldiers, but at the
will and sufferance of the priest.”

Ellen G. White has some interesting statements regarding the restrainer both in history
and in prophecy:

“The spirit of compromise and conformity [of the early Christian church] was restrained for a
time by the fierce persecutions which the church endured under paganism [in the times of
Ellen White ‘paganism’ meant the Roman Empire]. But as persecution ceased, and
Christianity entered the courts and palaces of kings, she laid aside the humble simplicity of
Christ and His apostles for the pomp and pride of pagan priests and rulers; and in place of the
requirements of God, she substituted human theories and traditions.” GC, p. 49. Bold is mine.

With regards to the future, Ellen White predicted that the restraint that was placed on the
papacy by the secular powers in 1798 will be removed and the papacy will regain her
power:

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome be
reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and
persecution.” GC, p. 564. Bold is mine.

“The vast empire of Rome crumbled to pieces, and from its ruins rose that mighty power,
the Roman Catholic Church. This church boasts of her infallibility and her hereditary
religion.” (Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 1, p. 50)

The Deadly Wound and the Captivity

Revelation 20 helps us understand what it means for the man of sin to be
bound/unbound or restrained/unrestrained. When Satan was able to influence the
kings of the earth to accomplish his purposes he was free and unbound. But when the
kings are all dead, he is bound or in captivity. This is the chain with which Satan is bound
during the 1,000 years. After the millennium when the kings resurrect, Satan’s wound will
be healed and he will be released from his prison for a short time.

Thus we are to understand the captivity of the beast in Revelation 13:10. When the beast
could use the sword of kings to accomplish its purposes it was free but when the kings
removed the sword, it was in captivity. Thus, the captivity mentioned in Revelation 13:10
does not refer merely to Pope Pius VI being taken captive in 1798 but rather the entire
system that he represented.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 75 of 385
Now that we know that the sword of Revelation 13:10 represents the attempt of the church
to use the punitive power of the state to enforce religious laws, we must seek to discover
what is meant by the deadly wound.

Revelation 13:10 states explicitly that the very sword that the papacy used to kill God’s
people (Daniel 7:25; Revelation 13:5) would be used by the state to give the papacy its
deadly wound. This means that in 1798 the secular power would use its sword to give the
papacy a deadly wound. Stated another way, the state would remove the power of the
sword from the papacy!

A careful study of Revelation 13:10 reveals that the deadly wound does not refer primarily
to the confiscation of the territories of the Roman Catholic Church. Neither is it the
elimination of the Roman Catholic Church as a church, because that has never happened.
Even after Pope Pius VI was taken prisoner, the Roman Catholic churches continued
functioning as churches.

The deadly wound was given to the papacy when the sword of the state that the papacy had
used to persecute God’s people turned against it. The deadly wound, then, was the
removal of the sword of the state from the hand of the papacy. This led to papacy into
captivity because it could no longer use the power of the state to enforce its practices and
dogmas. It was forced into inactivity by the very power that had brought it into activity.

The year 1798 marked the climax of the French Revolution that began in 1789. The
Revolution was an uprising against both kingly power and priestly intolerance. On
February 12, 1798 General Berthier entered Vatican City, deposed Pope Pius VI,
removed his triple crown, informed him that his power was at an end, and took him
prisoner to France where he died in exile in 1799. The emperor, Napoleon Bonaparte,
had already given orders that could not be elected.

Historians Describe the Deadly Wound

The way in which historians describe the deadly wound of 1798 is very telling. Some of
them employ language very similar to that of Revelation 13. Let’s take a few examples.

“The papacy was extinct; not a vestige of its existence remained; and among all the Roman
Catholic powers not a finger was stirred in its defense [because it no longer had the support
of the state]. The Eternal City had no longer prince or pontiff; its bishop was a dying captive
in foreign lands; and the decree was already announced that no successor would be allowed
in its place.” George Trevor, Rome: From the Fall of the Western Empire pp. 439, 440




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 76 of 385
“No wonder that half of Europe thought Napoleon’s veto would be obeyed, and that with the
Pope the Papacy was dead.” (Joseph Rickaby, Lectures on the History of Religion, ‘The
Modern Papacy,’ volume 3, p. 1

“Multitudes imagined that the papacy was at the point of death and asked, would Pius VI be
the last pontiff, and if the close of the eighteenth century would be signalized by the fall of the
papal dynasty.” T. H. Gill, The Papal Drama, book 10

“. . . the Papacy had suffered its deepest humiliation . . . [and] appeared to be annihilated . . .
The Revolution also dealt it the wound which, it seemed did not want to heal until far into
the twentieth century.” (M. Weitlauff, quoted in, Frank B. Holbrook, Symposium on
Revelation, volume 2 (Hagerstown, Maryland: Review and Herald, 1992), p. 337

The Eldest Daughter

One can’t help but sense the irony of what took place in 1798. France is known as the
eldest daughter of the papacy because Clovis, king of the Franks, was the first to
officially give temporal power to the papacy in the year 508 AD. Strikingly, the very nation
that had first given the papacy the sword, now turned against her mother giving her the
deadly wound.

In the chapter on the French Revolution, Ellen White quoted the church historian Wylie
concerning the meaning of the ‘sword’:

“Thus Rome succeeded in arraying France against the Reformation. It was to uphold the
throne, preserve the nobles, and maintain the laws, that the sword of persecution was first
unsheathed in France.” GC, p. 277

Luther certainly understood the meaning of the sword. When he was about to depart
from the Wartburg back to Wittenberg he spoke the following words to the Elector of
Saxony:

“No secular sword can advance this cause; God must do all, without the aid or co-operation
of man. He who has most faith is the most availing defense.” GC, p. 188

And Ellen White also understood that the ‘sword’ referred to the secular power:

“Then he [Saul of Tarsus] was entrusted with the sword of secular power, he was the agent
of the Sanhedrim, the Jewish inquisitor, the exterminator of heretics, seeking victims to
imprison, to scourge, or to stone.”

A Catastrophic Event




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 77 of 385
The French Revolution was a catastrophic event for the papacy. In the aftermath of the
Revolution country after country in the western world followed the example of France,
and the United States establishing democratic governments that proclaimed their
emancipation from the papacy’s dominion.

The helplessness of the papacy is revealed in a book written by Cardinal Edward Manning
and published in 1862 where he rebukes the nations of Europe for forsaking the papacy:

“See this Catholic Church, this Church of God, feeble and weak, rejected even by the very
nations called Catholic. There is Catholic France, and Catholic Germany, and Catholic Italy
giving up this exploded figment of the temporal power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ.’ And so,
because the Church seems weak, and the Vicar of the Son of God is renewing the Passion of
his Master upon earth, therefore we are scandalized, therefore we turn our faces from him.”
(The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 140, 141, emphasis mine)

Remarks Ranko Stefanovic regarding the deadly wound:

“The events of the French Revolution (including the demise of the papacy under Napoleon)
that impacted politics and religious liberty are probably the most apparent manifestation of
the ‘mortal wound.’ But for all practical purposes, it was this long process of political, social,
and religious transformation that caused the ‘mortal wound’ and brought the sea beast to the
‘is not’ period (cf. Rev. 17:11).” Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ, pp. 412, 413

The Healing of the Wound

But while the Revolution dealt the papacy a devastating deathblow, prophecy foretells that
she will arise from her deathbed far more powerful and despotic than in the past.

Revelation 13:3 describes the healing of the deadly wound:

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed and all the world marveled and followed the beast.”

What is the healing of the papacy’s deadly wound? Is it primarily the restoration of her
confiscated territory by the Italian government? Is it the recovery of her ecclesiastical
power? Not really. Only by knowing what is meant by the deadly wound can we
understand what is meant by its healing.

We must understand that ‘papacy’ is a code word for a religious-political system that
employs the power of the state to compel people to obey its dictates. Expressed another
way, the papacy is not merely a church but an amalgamation of church and state. It is a
political power that presents before the world a religious face. With its religious face it




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 78 of 385
deceives the multitudes and with its political seat it enters the great political power
centers of the world.

If the deadly wound means that in 1798 the state turned against the papacy and took away
the sword, then the healing of the wound must mean that the state will once more
support her and give the sword back.



Was the Deadly Wound Healed in 1801?

It is a little known fact in Adventist circles that a new Pope was elected just three and a half
years after the deadly wound was given. Not only was a new Pope elected, but he was also
allowed to retain possession of his Italian principality. Says historian Arthur Robert
Pennington:

“He [Napoleon] felt that, as the large majority of the inhabitants of France knew no other
form of faith than Romanism, it must become the established religion of the country.
Accordingly we find that he now began negotiations with the Pope, which issued in a
Concordat in July 1801, whereby the Roman Catholic religion was once more established in
France. He also left Pius in possession of his Italian principality.” Arthur Robert
Pennington, Epochs of the Papacy, pp. 450, 452.

So, if a new Pope was elected and allowed to retain his principality, was the deadly wound
healed in 1801? There are strong reasons to believe that it was not. What are they?

First, as we shall see in our next study, prophecy clearly indicates that the United States
will be the power that will restore the sword to the papacy, not France.

Secondly, even though the papacy retained its territory and principality, the nations of
Europe that had supported her in the past wanted nothing to do with her.

Third, the concordat of 1801, did not lead the nations of Europe to command all nations to
worship the beast, or to erect an image to it or to impose its mark.

Finally, the power of the papacy was severely restricted by the French government. The
state elected the bishops and paid the clergy and the clergy were required to swear an
oath of allegiance to the state.

This leads us to conclude that the recovery of spiritual dominion and geographical
territory does not necessarily mean that the deadly wound was healed.

The Wound of 1870



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 79 of 385
Another little known fact in Adventist circles is that the papacy received a further wound
on September 20, 1870 when King Victor Emmanuel II confiscated the Papal States and
united Italy. As a result the papacy lost most of its territory (except for a handful of
buildings in Vatican City). In protest, Pope Pius IX and his successors declared themselves
prisoners of the Vatican and as a result no Pope left Vatican City for the next 59 years.

During his pontificate of 46 years Pope Pius IX further alienated and angered the
governments of western Europe and the United States by proclaiming the Dogma of the
Immaculate Conception [1854] by publishing his Syllabus of Errors where he railed
against democratic governments and civil and religious liberty [1864] and by calling
Vatican Council I where the Dogma of Papal Infallibility [1870] was proclaimed. This takes
us to the year 1929.

Was the Deadly Wound Healed in 1929?

Adventist writers and evangelists have made much of the year 1929 when the government
of Italy signed a concordat with the Vatican thus healing the wound that had been inflicted
by the Italian government in 1870. But was the deadly wound of 1798 healed in that year?
There are several convincing reasons why we cannot say that the wound was healed in
1929. Let’s examine them.

First, the concordat that was signed between the papacy and the Italian government in
1929 had to do with the wound the papacy received in 1870 and not the one it received in
1798.

Second, the prophecy of Revelation 13:11-18 is clear that the United States, not Italy,
would be the nation to bring about the healing of the wound.

Even more significantly, in the aftermath of 1929 the whole world did not wonder after
the papacy, an image was not made of and to it, and its mark was not enforced on pain of
death.

Where, then, did Adventists get the idea that the wound was healed in 1929? The answer is
found in an article that appeared in the San Francisco Chronicle the very day that the
1929 Concordat was signed.

The headline on the front-page of the newspaper read:

“VATICAN AGAIN AT PEACE WITH ITALY AFTER LONG QUARREL”

In smaller lettering appeared the words: “Heal Wound of Many Years.”

The part of the article that was most significant to Adventists was this:



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 80 of 385
“The Roman question tonight was a thing of the past and the Vatican was at peace with Italy.
The formal accomplishment of this today was the exchange of signatures in the historic
Palace of St. John Lateran by two noteworthy plenipotentiaries, Cardinal Gasparri for Pope
Pius XI and Premier Mussolini for King Victor Emmanuel III.”

“In affixing the autographs to the memorable document, healing the wound which has
festered since 1870 [not since 1798], extreme cordiality was displayed on both sides. ”The
San Francisco Chronicle, February 11, 1929, p. 1

The New York Times reported on this important event:

“The Pope is again an independent sovereign ruler, as he was throughout the middle Ages,
though his temporal realm, established today, is the most microscopic independent State in
the world, and probably the smallest in all history.” The New York Times, Tuesday, February
12, 1929

The article in the San Francisco Chronicle makes it abundantly clear that the wound that
was healed in 1929 was the one given to the papacy in 1870 and not the one she received
in 1798.

Don’t get me wrong. What happened in 1929 was very significant. The recovery of
temporal sovereignty by the papacy was an important occurrence. We might go so far as
to say that the wounds of the papacy began to heal in that year. But the wound was not
healed in that year.

Why Hasn’t the Mortal Wound Healed Yet?

The late Malachi Martin the Jesuit exorcist of the Roman Catholic Church and author of the
best-selling book, The Keys of this Blood, said in 1986:

“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, Rome had kept as strong a hand as possible in each
local community around the wide world . . . By and large, and admitting some exceptions, that
had been the Roman view until two hundred years of inactivity had been imposed upon the
papacy by the major secular powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity Today
(November 21, 1986), p. 26.

Ellen White concurred with Martin and predicted that when the restraints of the secular
powers would be removed the papacy’s tyranny and persecution would be revived:

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome be
reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and
persecution.” GC, p. 564




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 81 of 385
The reason why the mortal wound has not yet healed is because the secular governments
of the world have not allowed the papacy to ride on them once again. So to speak, the
chains that fell off the hands of the papacy when the civil power of the Roman Empire fell
in the third and fourth centuries were slapped back on her hands in 1798.

In a remarkable statement John W. Robbins, a Reformed theologian, quotes Ayn Rand:

“The Catholic Church has never given up the hope to re-establish [you cannot reestablish
something that did not exist before] the medieval union of church and state, with a
global state and a global theocracy as its ultimate goal.’ The Roman Church-State is a
hybrid—a monster of ecclesiastical and political power. Its political thought is
totalitarian, and whenever it has had the opportunity to apply its principles, the result has
been bloody repression. If, during the last 30 years, it has softened its assertions of full,
supreme, and irresponsible power, and has murdered fewer people than before, such changes
in behavior are not due to a change in its ideas, but to a change in its circumstances [the
secular governments keep her at arms’ length] . . . The Roman Church-State in the
twentieth century, however, is an institution recovering from a mortal wound. If and when
it regains [so it must have lost it] its full power and authority, it will impose a regime more
sinister than any the planet has yet seen [the deadly wound will be healed].” John W.
Robbins, Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p. 195.

Evangelical writer Dave Hunt adds:

“Why do world leaders want to get into bed with the Vatican? [Notice the fornication
metaphor] The heads of state in today’s world all recognize that the Pope wields a power
that in many ways is even greater than their own. It is not only Catholicism’s 900 million
subjects and enormous wealth that cause the world’s most powerful governments to cultivate
friendly relations with the Roman Catholic Church; it is because Vatican City’s citizens are
found in great numbers in nearly every country. They constitute an international
network that reaches into the inside circles of the world’s power centers.” (Dave Hunt,
Global Peace, p. 116)

In his book The Keys of this Blood, Malachi Martin described the competition for global
control among three systems: capitalism, communism and Roman Catholicism:

“There is one great similarity shared by all three of these globalist competitors. Each one has
in mind a particular grand design for one world governance . . . Their geopolitical
competition is about which of the three will form, dominate and run the world system that
will replace the decaying nation system.” (Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood, p. 18)




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 82 of 385
Martin harbors no doubts about who will win in this tooth and nail competition—the
Roman Catholic papacy. And Martin describes in chilling words what will happen when
the papacy resurrects from its deadly wound:

“No holds barred because, once the competition has been decided, the world and all that’s in
it--our way of life as individuals and as citizens of the nations; our families and our jobs;
our trade and commerce and money; our educational systems and our religions and our
cultures; even the badges of our national identity, which most of us have always taken for
granted--all will have been powerfully and radically altered forever. No one can be
exempted from its effects. No sector of our lives will remain untouched . . . Nobody who is
acquainted with the plans of these three rivals has any doubt but that only one of them can
win.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of This Blood, p. 16

And what is the time frame for this geopolitical New World Order under the leadership of
the Roman Catholic papacy?

“As to the time factor involved, those of us who are under seventy will see at least the basic
structures of the new world government installed. Those of us under forty will surely live
under its legislative, executive and judiciary authority and control.” Malachi Martin, The
Keys of this Blood, pp. 15-16.

The crucial question is this: How will the papacy regain the power of the sword that it
lost over two hundred years ago? Which nation in its right mind will loosen the chains
that have restrained this system for the last two centuries? Even more pointedly, what
nation in the world would be foolish enough to place the sword once again in the hand of
such a despotic power? Prophecy reveals that the sword of civil power will be restored to
the papacy with the aid of the most unlikely of nations.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 83 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 84 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


     LESSON #6 – REVELATION’S LAND BEAST

Revelation 13:11-18

“Then [when the first beast received its deadly wound] I saw another beast coming up
[used in Matthew 13:7 of a plant just sprouting] out of the earth [in a different place
than the first beasts], and he had two horns like a lamb [used as a symbol of Christ 28
times in Revelation] and spoke like a dragon [symbol of Satan working through Rome].
12 And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence [at the first beast’s
commissioning], and causes [by the use of compulsion] the earth and those who dwell in
it to worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. 13 He [the land beast]
performs great signs, so that he even makes fire come down from heaven on the earth in
the sight of men [reminiscent of the stories of Elijah and Pentecost]. 14 And he deceives
those who dwell on the earth by those signs which he was granted to do in the sight of [at
the commissioning of] the beast, telling those [NIV: ‘he ordered them’] who dwell on the
earth to make an image to [‘in honor of’ in the NIV: dative case] the beast who was
wounded by the sword and lived. 15 He [the first beast in the light of Ellen White’s
comment in Spaulding-Magan, pp. 1, 2] was granted power to give breath to the image of
[a replica: genitive case] the beast, that the image of [a replica: genitive case] the beast
should both speak [through its legislative and judicial authority] and cause [uses
compulsion] as many as would not worship the image of [a replica: genitive case] the beast
to be killed. 16 He causes [NIV: ‘forced everyone] all, both small and great, rich and poor,
free and slave, to receive a mark [to be studied in a later lecture] on their right hand [out
of convenience] or on their foreheads [out of conviction] 17 and that no one may buy or
sell except one who has the mark or the name [Vicarius Filii Dei] of the beast, or the
number of his name [666].” 18 Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate
[psephizo: see Luke 14:28] the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man: His
number is 666.”



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 85 of 385
The Chronology of Revelation 12 and 13

The chronological sequence of Revelation 12:13-17 concludes with three distinct
stages:

      The first is the period is when the dragon persecuted the woman during the 1260
       year period (verses 13-15)
      The second stage is the period when the earth helped the woman by swallowing up
       the waters of persecution (verse 16)
      The third stage is when the dragon will be enraged against the woman and will go
       out to war against the final remnant of her seed (verse 17)

The historical sequence in Revelation 13 is identical:

      The first stage is the period of 42 months during which the beast persecuted the
       saints (Revelation 13:1-10)
      The second stage is when the beast rises from the earth [the territory of 12:16]
       with the two horns like a lamb (Revelation 13:11)
      The third stage is when the beast with the lamblike horns ends up speaking like a
       dragon (Revelation 13:12-18)

Exegetical Remarks

The word ‘earth’ in Revelation 13:11-18 has a restricted meaning. In context, it applies
primarily to the geographical territory of the United States as seen by the historical
sequence of Revelation 12:13-17.

The expression ‘coming up’ is used in Matthew 13:7 to describe weeds that sprout up
from the earth.

As we shall see later on in this study, the dragon is a symbol of Satan working through the
instrumentality of Rome. The dragon in the book of Revelation is always identified with the
different stages of Rome. Rome tried to kill Jesus, Papal Rome attempted to destroy the
saints during the 1260 years and the United States acting as the agent of a resurrected
Papal Rome will attempt to destroy the final remnant.

The word ‘lamb’ is used 29 times in the book of Revelation and in 28 of those 29 times it
refers indisputably to Jesus Christ. As we shall see, it is also related to Jesus Christ in
Revelation 13:11.

The expression ‘and spoke like a dragon’ can legitimately be translated in two different yet
complementary ways. It can be translated ‘and it spoke like a dragon’ or ‘but it spoke like a
dragon.’ The first translation would indicate that the land beast has two horns like a lamb


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 86 of 385
while at the same time it speaks like a dragon. The second translation indicates a contrast
between the two horns and the voice of the dragon: The land beast had two horns like a
lamb but it contradicted what the horns represent by speaking like a dragon.

It bears noting that the land beast does everything to honor and impress the first beast.

      We are told that the land beast ‘exercises all the authority of the first beast in its
       presence,’ (verse 12)
      The land beast with lamblike horns ‘causes the earth and those who dwell in it to
       worship the first beast’ (verse 12)
      The land beast performs signs ‘in the sight of the beast’ (verse 14).
      The land beast makes an image of the first beast (3 times in verse 15) in its honor
       (verse 14).
      The land beast enforces the mark of the first beast (verses 16, 17)
      The land beast gives a death decree against those who refuse to worship the image
       of the first beast (verse 15).

According to the best lexicons, the expression ‘in the sight of the beast’ means ‘at the
commissioning of’ the first beast. Thus, this second beast is the first beast’s agent or puppet.

The word ‘cause’ that is used throughout the passage indicates that this land beast will use
force to compel those who dwell on the earth to render honor to the first beast. That is to
say, this beast will not persuade people to worship the beast but rather will compel them
to do so. Though the word poieo generally means simply ‘to make’, in this context it carries
the nuance of force. The word is used in a similar way in Revelation 3:9 where we are told
that God will make (compel) the Synagogue of Satan to worship before the feet of the
saints.

The sign of the land beast bringing fire down from heaven is reminiscent of the
experience of Elijah when he brought fire down from heaven on Mt. Carmel. In other
words, the story of Elijah must be studied carefully as one of the backgrounds to this
prophecy. The fire from heaven also brings to mind the tongues of fire that fell on the Day
of Pentecost.

Another clear backdrop behind the story of the beast, his image, his mark and the number
666 is found in the story of Daniel 3.

The word ‘image’ [eikon] in the passage refers to a likeness or a reflection of someone or
something. It is used in Matthew 22:20 to describe the image of Caesar on the Roman
denarius. It is also used to describe idolatrous images of the gods made by the pagans and
the word also describes Jesus as the image or reflection of the invisible God.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 87 of 385
The Beast from the Earth

In Revelation 13:11 we find a description of a two-horned beast that rises from the earth
that will compel the entire world to worship the beast that was wounded with the
sword:

In Revelation 13:11 we find a description of this land beast:

“Then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and
spoke like a dragon.”

The text clearly indicates that it is the destiny of this second beast to help the first beast
recover its power. Whereas the previous beasts conquered the beasts that preceded them,
this beast will release the first beast from its captivity and restore to it the power of the
sword. The land beast will exercise the authority of the first beast on its behalf, compel all
to worship it, set up an image in its honor and impose its mark. Everything this land beast
does is in the presence of the first beast. This expression is translated ‘on its behalf’ in the
NIV and The Message paraphrase has it that this beast ‘was a puppet of the first Beast.’ This
two-horned beast will be the sword in the hand of the papacy and we are told that it will
threaten to kill with that sword anyone who dissents:

Revelation 13:15:

“He was granted power to give breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast
should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be
killed.” (Revelation 13:15)

What’s remarkable about this beast is its split personality. While it has two horns like a
lamb it simultaneously speaks like a dragon. Notably, the two horns are not broken off
before it begins to speak like a dragon. It speaks like a dragon while it still continues to
have the two lamblike horns on its head. The character of this beast is reminiscent of the
split personality manifested by Dr. Jekyll (good) and Mr. Hyde (evil).

Introductory Statements in Revelation

It is important to realize that Revelation 13:11 is the summary statement of the entire
career of the earth beast. It is customary in Revelation for the beginning and ending points
of a prophetic sequence to be summarized at the very inception of the prophecy (Rev. 3:21,
Rev. 8:1-5; 11:19; Rev. 15:1). This prophecy does not mean that the land beast acts
simultaneously like a lamb and a dragon at the very beginning of its career!! When this
beast rises from the earth it has two horns like a lamb and only later on, while it still has
the horns like the lamb, it will speak like a dragon.



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 88 of 385
What is meant by the two lamblike horns and the voice of the dragon? Let’s begin by
identifying the meaning of the dragon symbolism in the book of Revelation.

Three Stages of the Dragon in Revelation 12 and 13

Even a cursory study of Revelation 12 and 13 indicates the dragon is the stealth
protagonist of these chapters. The dragon stands in the background of the different
historical stages that are described in these chapters.

In the book of Revelation the dragon primarily represents Satan (Revelation 12:7-9) but it
also represents Satan working through the instrumentality of Rome in its various stages.
Thus it is that the beast that rises from the earth and speaks like a dragon is not only a
spokesman for Satan but also for Rome.

This can be seen clearly by a comparison of Daniel 7:25 and Revelation 12:14. In Daniel
7:25 we are told that the little horn persecuted the saints for 1260 years. The little horn
is clearly a symbol of papal Rome. But in Revelation 12:14 we are informed that the
dragon persecuted the woman for 1260 years. A comparison of these two verses leads us
to the inevitable conclusion that the dragon persecuted the church through the
instrumentality of papal Rome. In Revelation 12 and 13 the dragon persecutes during
three stages:

   Dragon Stage #1:

      It was Satan who stood next to the woman to devour her child as soon as He was
       born. But Satan operated through the instrumentality of Herod, a ruler of the
       Roman Empire. Satan also used the power of Rome to condemn Jesus to death
       (Revelation 12:3 [Daniel 7:23] Matthew 2:16).

   Dragon Stage #2:

      When the Roman Empire disintegrated, it gave its seat, its power and its great
       authority to the beast (Revelation 13:2) and then the beast persecuted the woman
       for 1260 years. Thus the papacy continued to exercise the powers of the dragon—
       Satan and Rome.

   Dragon Stage #3:

    Revelation 13:11 informs us that the beast from the earth will speak like a dragon.
       Thus the land beast will not only be a spokesman for Satan but also Satan working
       through Rome. And so, the dragon, the sea beast and the land beast are all agents
       of Satan operating through Rome.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 89 of 385
Summary of Revelation 12

Stage #1: It was the dragon—Satan through pagan Rome—that attempted to kill the
male child (Revelation 12:1-5).

Stage #2: It was the dragon—Satan through papal Rome—who persecuted the woman
for 1260 years after the child ascended to heaven (Revelation 12:5, 6, 13-15).

Stage #3: It will be the dragon—Satan through resurrected papal Rome with the aid of
the United States—who will persecute the remnant of the woman’s seed when the deadly
wound is healed (Revelation 12:17).

This is the reason why Revelation 13:4 affirms that the world will not only worship the
beast but it will also worship the dragon from whom the beast received its power, its
throne and great authority! Ellen White made a very interesting remark about the Papacy
having a Roman element:

“She [the Papacy] is silently growing into power. Her doctrines are exerting their influence in
legislative halls, in the churches, and in the hearts of men. She is piling up her lofty and
massive structures in the secret recesses of which her former persecutions will be repeated.
Stealthily and unsuspectedly she is strengthening her forces to further her own ends when
the time shall come for her to strike. All that she desires is vantage ground, and this is already
being given her. We shall soon see and shall feel what the purpose of the Roman element is.
Whoever shall believe and obey the word of God will thereby incur reproach and persecution.”
GC, p. 581

Characteristics of the Land Beast

Characteristic #1: It is universally agreed among students of apocalyptic prophecy that
beasts represent kingdoms or nations. In the book of Daniel, the lion, the bear, the
leopard, the dragon, the ram and the he-goat all represent nations or empires.

The noted Bible commentator, Adam Clarke wisely remarked about this lamb-horned
beast:

“As a beast has already been shown to be the symbol of a kingdom or empire, the rising up of
this second beast must consequently represent the rising up of another empire.”

Characteristic #2: The Historical flow of Daniel 7 and Revelation 13:1-10 reveals the
time when the beast from the earth would rise to power:

      Lion: Babylon (605-539 BC)
      Bear: Medes and Persians (539-331 BC)


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 90 of 385
      Leopard: Greece (331-168 BC)
      Dragon: Rome (168 BC-476 AD)
      Ten Horns: Divided Rome (476 AD)
      Little horn and Sea Beast: Papal Rome during its 1260-year stage (538-1798 AD)
      Deadly wound stage from 1798 till the present (secular governments restrain)
      Beast from the earth ratified its Declaration of Independence in 1776, its
       Constitution in 1787 and its Bill of Rights in 1791 AD
      Yet to occur: The deadly wound will be healed by the land beast (secular
       governments will be influenced to remove the restraint)
Characteristic #3: The land beast rose around the time when the first beast received its
deadly wound and was led into captivity in 1798.

Revelation 13:10, 11:

“He who leads into captivity shall go into captivity; he who kills with the sword must be killed
with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. Then I saw another beast
coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and spoke like a dragon.”

Characteristic #4: The earth must represent a sparsely populated area because all of
the other beasts arose from the sea of multitudes, nations, tongues and peoples (Revelation
17:15; Isaiah 17:12, 13). In Revelation 13:11 there is no reference to waters, winds or
savage beasts. The land beast did not have to war against a previous empire.

Daniel J. Boorstin (for many years the librarian of Congress) in his 1975 Reith Lectures
in London stated:

“. . . the vacancy of North America [was] to prove to be its peculiar promise to the world. . .
Emptiness was America’s special fertility.” Quoted in Signs of the Times, October, 1976, p.
25

Characteristic #5: The land beast rose like a plant in silence and not in the midst of
tumult of nations and war. The expression ‘coming up’ is used in the Parable of the Sower to
describe the sprouting of plants:

Matthew 13:7:

“And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them.”

“The history of the United States was separated by a beneficent Providence from the wild and
cruel history of the rest of the continent, and like a silent seed we grew into an empire.” G. A.
Townsend, The New World Compared with the Old, quoted in “Why America Happened,”
Signs of the Times, October 1976, p. 26




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 91 of 385
Characteristic #6: The four beasts of Daniel 7 arose from the sea (Daniel 7:2; 13:1, 2).
The first two beasts were Asiatic powers (Babylon and Medo-Persia). The next two beasts
were European powers (Greece and Rome). The land beast with lamblike horns could not
then rise in Europe or Asia. The beast with lamblike horns rose from the earth and thus it
must have risen in a different place than the first four beasts. The fulfillment of prophecy
seems to move from east to west, so this nation must arise further west than the nations
of Daniel 7. Notably, the American continent is directly west of Europe.

Characteristic #7: The territory in which this nation later arose, provided refuge for the
woman who was persecuted by the sea beast during the 1260 years (Revelation 12:13-
16).

Characteristic #8: Whereas the beasts of Daniel 7 ruled in succession, the land beast is
contemporaneous or co-existent with the sea beast but the sea beast is much older.

In contrast to the previous beasts, the land beast becomes an ally of the first and helps it
recover its power. Thus the land beast will become the first beast’s enforcer and help its
wound to heal. It will force people to worship the beast, the image and to receive the mark.

Characteristic #9: Later in its history this nation would grow into a worldwide
superpower economically (forbidding to buy or sell), militarily (enforcing the mark of
the beast on pain of death) and politically (leading all the nations of the world to worship
the first beast).

Population of the United States:
      1701: 260,000
      1776: 2.8 million
      1800: 5,236,000
      1900: 76,212,000
      1950: 151,325,000
      2016: Over 340 million
Characteristic #10: While the land beast has two lamblike horns it will end up speaking
like a dragon. This characteristic will engage us for the rest of this study.

Two Horns: Two Kingdoms Within One Nation

Seventh-day Adventist interpreters have been accused of being inconsistent because they
teach that the two lamblike horns in Revelation 13:11 represent two principles upon which
the United States was built (civil and religious liberty) while they teach that horns
represent kingdoms in other parts of Daniel and Revelation (such as the ten horns on the
fourth beast of Daniel 7 and the ram and he-goat of Daniel 8)? But we shall find in our study


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 92 of 385
that there is really no inconsistency at all! As we proceed in our study we will see that the
principles of civil and religious liberty are based upon the idea of two distinguishable and
separable kingdoms within a single nation.

Adam Clarke shows how consistency demands that the two horns of the land beast
represent kingdoms:

“As the seven-headed beast is represented as having ten horns, which signify so many
kingdoms leagued together to support the Latin Church, so the beast which rises out of the
earth has also two horns, which must consequently represent two kingdoms; for if horns of
a beast mean kingdoms in one part of the Apocalypse, kingdoms must be intended by this
symbol whenever it is used in a similar way in any other part of this book.”

The Background of Daniel 8

Was Adam Clarke correct? I believe we can prove that he was. The closest Biblical
parallel to the lamb-horned beast of Revelation 13:11 is the ram of Daniel 8. Let’s notice
verses three and twenty:

“Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and there, standing beside the river, was a ram which had two
horns, and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher one
came up last . . . The ram which you saw, having the two horns--they are the kings of Media
and Persia.”

It will be noticed that the ram represents one nation that was composed of two
kingdoms—the Medes and the Persians. The inevitable conclusion is that the two horns
like a lamb in Revelation 13:11 symbolize two kingdoms that exist side by side within a
single nation.

Why the Horns are Lamblike

Revelation uses the word ‘Lamb’ 29 times and in 28 of those references it refers
indisputably to Christ. Does it apply to Christ as well in Revelation 13:11? Ranko Stefanovic
answers the question:

“The symbol of the lamb in Revelation always refers to Christ, which suggests that the
reference here is not to any lamb but clearly to the Lamb. Thus, the appearance of the earth
beast is described in Christ-like terms, suggesting a very possible history of this power, with a
religious overtone.” Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ, p. 419

The text is clear: The two lamblike horns are in antithesis to the dragon’s voice. The land
beast has two horns like a lamb but in contrast it speaks like a dragon. Clearly the there is a
contrast here between the Lamb’s horns and the dragon’s voice.


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 93 of 385
It is clear from Revelation 13:11 that the two lamblike horns constitute the positive or
favorable side of the land beast while the dragon’s voice is the negative or unfavorable
side. The two lamblike horns indicate that while the earth beast professes to believe in the
two kingdoms that Jesus believed in it contradicts its profession in actual practice.

Being that the two horns represent the two kingdoms that Jesus, the Lamb, recognized, the
question is: Which two kingdoms did Jesus, the lamb, recognize? Before we answer this
question, let us summarize what we have studied so far about this beast.

Conclusion and Summary

      The land beast represents a single nation.
      The two horns represent the fact that within this single nation two kingdoms
       would coexist side by side.
      The horns are lamblike so they must represent two kingdoms that were recognized
       by Jesus, the Lamb of God.

Which Two Kingdoms did Jesus Recognize?

In order to answer this question, let’s turn in our Bibles to Matthew 22:15-21

“Then the Pharisees went and plotted how they might entangle Him in His talk. 16 And they
sent to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that You are true,
and teach the way of God in truth; nor do You care about anyone, for You do not regard the
person of men. 17 Tell us, therefore, what do You think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or
not?" 18 But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, "Why do you test Me, you hypocrites?
19 Show Me the tax money." So they brought Him a denarius. 20 And He said to them, "Whose
image and inscription is this?" 21 They said to Him, "Caesar's." And He said to them, "Render
therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."

Clearly, Jesus, the Lamb of God, recognized the co-existence of two kingdoms in His day.
The first was the civil power of Rome (the state) and the second was the spiritual
kingdom of God (the church). Jesus elsewhere referred to these two kingdoms as “my
kingdom” and the kingdoms of “this world” (John 18:36).

The Nation with Lamblike Horns

Now the question must be asked and answered: What nation or kingdom was beginning to
rise to power around 1798 when the first beast received its deadly wound which in its
founding documents explicitly recognized the legitimate simultaneous existence of two
kingdoms within a single nation such as Jesus believed in? The answer is unmistakable
and irrefutable. States Ellen White:



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 94 of 385
“What nation of the New World was in 1798 rising into power, giving promise of strength and
greatness, and attracting the attention of the world? The application of the symbol admits of
no question. One nation, and only one, meets the specifications of this prophecy; it points
unmistakably to the United States of America.” GC, p. 440

Two Periods

For convenience’s sake, the history of the United States can be divided into two broad
periods:

      The Colonial period (1620-1776)
      The Constitutional period (1776 to the present)

The Constitutional Fathers

The Constitutional Fathers (men such as George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, John
Adams, James Madison and Benjamin Franklin) of the United States knew full well three
realities:

      The history of the church/state alliance in the middle ages
      The history of church/state relations in the Colonial period
      The union of church and state as portrayed in the Bible

The Founders and the Inquisition

In their writings, the Founding Fathers reveal that they knew full well the history of the
church/state alliance in the middle Ages and the persecution that ensued. In fact, they were
living in the closing years of the 1260-year prophecy. It is sobering to realize that the
Declaration of Independence (1776), the Constitution (1787) and the Bill of Rights
(1791) were all written and ratified immediately before the deadly wound was given to
the papacy in 1798.

The constitutional fathers were well aware that when church and state are joined
together the inevitable result is a denial of civil and religious liberty and persecution.

They knew all about the mechanism of the Inquisition and were well acquainted with the
martyrdom of holy men such as John Hus. They knew that Hus was held in subhuman
prison squalor for months without due process, that he was accused by false
witnesses, that he had broken no civil laws, that he was tried for the religious
convictions of his conscience, that he was judged by the leaders of the church in a similar
fashion that the Sanhedrin had judged Jesus, that the religious leaders pronounced the
death penalty against him and that the church had finally appealed to the civil power of




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 95 of 385
emperor Sigismund to ratify and carry out the church’s death decree. And they knew that
Hus was burned at the stake for nothing other than the convictions of his own conscience.

John Hus

The man who was chosen to take Hus from Prague to Constance was called Pogius the
Papist. When Pogius went to Prague to take Hus to Constance, he was a strong Roman
Catholic but when he observed Hus’ piety and how he was mistreated by the papacy, he
became a Hus sympathizer.

Upon arrival in Constance, Hus was thrown into prison where he spent several months
without due process. Finally, he was brought forth from prison for his ecclesiastical trial.
This is how Pogius described Hus’ condition when he was brought forth from his cell:

“After a short while Hus was led out of his dungeon into a decent chamber, but his feet almost
refused to carry him, he swayed as he walked; listless and unused to the day was the light of
his eyes, deathly pale his cheeks and loose what was left of his teeth, since eleven had fallen
out due to the damp prison. The nails on his fingers were terribly long, because he had been
unable to bite them off for many weeks; upon his skin was a crust of dirt, which exuded an
awful stench, and his otherwise brown hair fell in white ringlets upon his rotting and torn
garb. His shoes had rotted upon his feet and his shirt and loincloth had vanished. The rounded
flesh, which had covered his bones, had shrunken and shriveled and he had become a picture
of woe without equal, unrecognizable to those who had known him before. Horror filled those
who looked upon him and pitying people prepared a bath for him, brought shirts and clothing
and refreshed him with strengthening foods, for which he could only thank with tearful eyes.”
Pogius the Papist, Hus the Heretic, p. 19

After cleaning up, Hus was taken to stand before the religious magistrates of the Church
(much as Jesus stood before the Sanhedrin) for a religious trial:

“With the clock striking eight and the bells tolling, the procession of bishops, cardinals,
fathers and deputies moved toward the church, where a chair had been placed for Hus about
which the seats of the gentlemen were arranged.” Hus the Heretic, p. 28

Forty-seven charges were then read against Hus and none of them were violations of civil
law. Every charge had to do with the religious convictions of his own conscience. According
to Pogius when Hus attempted to present his defense, the religious leaders shouted much
like the mob that cried out for the crucifixion of Jesus (Hus the Heretic, p. 40)

When the shouts had subsided Hus was allowed to speak and in his concluding statement
he made reference to the sword that the church was about to use to execute him:




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 96 of 385
“He [God] gave to Peter, his disciple, the key to open all hearts and the heaven of faith with it,
but not the sword, to slay, as you slay all those who do not accept your worldly doctrines and
who evade them.” (Hus the Heretic, p. 41)

The vote was then taken to determine if Hus was guilty of the accusations that were
leveled against him. This was the final tally:

      31 votes found him not guilty
      11 were for excommunication
      45 votes were for death

After his religious trial Hus was taken before the civil ruler, Emperor Sigismund,
because the church needed the aid of the civil power in order to execute him. Pogius
described how Count Chlum, one of Hus’ ardent defenders, pleaded with the Emperor:
“Caesar, desist from such doings . . . Caesar, Caesar, do not write your name with blood.”

Pogius then remarks:

“But the Emperor’s ears were deaf and were further closed by the cardinals, bishops and
priests who crowded about him, kissed the hem of his garments and praised his name, when
he seized the quill and wrote his name.” (Hus the Heretic, p. 63)

The priests then wrote the sentence and gave it to Emperor Sigismund who signed the
royal edict on July 5, 1415.

The Inquisition in Lima, Peru

A few years ago I had the privilege of preaching a week of prayer at our Seventh-day
Adventist University near the city of Lima, Peru. There was one place I had always wanted
to visit in Lima—the palace of the Inquisition. You see, Latin America had three places
where the Inquisition functioned: Colombia, Peru and Mexico.

At the very entrance of the Palace there was a large mural that portrayed an Auto de Fe in
the Plaza de Armas. After our tour guide explained the various details of the mural, we
stepped into the torture chamber. I was amazed at how our young tour guide matter-of-
factly described the methods that were used to torture and slay heretics who disagreed
with the teachings and practices of the Roman Catholic Church.

As we entered the torture chamber on the right there was the Strappado:

      The victim’s wrists were bound behind their back with one end of a rope and
       then the loose end was tossed over an elevated beam.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 97 of 385
      With hands tied behind the back, the victim would then slowly be raised by pulling
       on the loose end of the rope and when the victim was high above the ground the
       loose end was abruptly released and then stopped slightly before the victim
       reached the ground thus dislocating the arms and shoulders.
      Sometimes weights of up to 25 pounds were bound to the victim’s feet to make the
       drop more precipitous and the dislocation more painful.

Next there was the whipping post:

      With hands and feet in the stocks the prisoner was beaten with a whip on his bare
       back a minimum of 50 and a maximum of 200 times.

A left-turn and on the left hand side there was the Rack:

      The victim was laid upon a table face up with arms and legs extended. The
       victim’s ankles and wrists were then tied with ropes that were attached to pulleys
       at the four ends of the table.
      Wheels at either end of the board were turned pulling the legs downward and
       the arms upward. As the ropes got tighter and tighter the body was stretched in
       opposite directions.
      As the victim was commanded to recant, the shoulders, elbows, thighs and ankles
       were slowly dislocated as the prisoner writhed in pain.

On the right hand side was the Garotte:

      It was an instrument that slowly strangled the victim.
      The hands and feet were tied with rope to the arms and legs of the chair and a
       noose was tied around the neck.
      In back of the chair was a wheel that worked as a tourniquet.
      The wheel was slowly turned and this pulled the rope tighter and tighter around
       the hands, feet and neck until the victim was strangled.


Water boarding was next:

      Another left and we are at a bench where the victim was laid down face up, his
       nostrils were pinched shut and water was poured down a funnel into the victim’s
       throat.
      Sometimes a cloth was forced down the throat while pouring the water causing
       the sensation of suffocation by drowning.

Then we went down deep into the underground tunnels where dungeons had been hewn
into the rock.


        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 98 of 385
      The cubicles were barely larger than the person who was enclosed in them
      For days victims were shut in by the cold and in absolute darkness with barely
       enough room to wiggle while their families wondered where they were.

As mentioned before, some more fortunate victims were taken to the Plaza de Armas,
wood was placed around their bodies, and they were chained to a stake and then burned
alive.

The Constitutional Fathers of the United States knew all about this history and they were
determined to establish a nation with full civil and religious liberty where such things could
never happen.

The Colonial Period

The Constitutional Fathers also knew all about the history of the colonial period (1620-
1776). They were well aware that atheists, Jews, Quakers, Baptists and others were
deprived of their civil rights simply because their beliefs and practices did not square
with those of the established Puritan religion of the colonies.

The founders knew all about Sunday laws that compelled people to attend church on pain
of fines, lashes, imprisonment and in the case of three colonies, even death. They knew
that only members of the established church were allowed to serve in in the civil
government. They knew that pastors of the established churches were remunerated from
taxes collected by the government from the people.

They knew full well about Roger Williams who was banished from the Massachusetts
Bay Colony in September of 1635 for his views concerning the separation of church and
state. They knew how Williams was forced to flee from the colony in late 1635 and early
1636 in the dead of winter in order to escape the wrath of the religious leaders. The
Founding Fathers knew that Williams had founded the colony of Rhode Island with its
capital, Providence. Williams’ used a persuasive argument against the idea that the church
should employ the power of the state to force people to embrace and practice the
established religion of the colonies:

“The forcing of a woman, that is, the violent acting of uncleanness upon her body against her
will, we count rape: by proportion that is a spiritual or soul-rape, which is forcing of the
conscience of any person, to acts of worship.” Words of Roger Williams in Timothy Hall,
Separating Church and State, p. 87




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 99 of 385
According to Williams:

The civil magistrate possesses a “civil sword . . . for the defense of persons, estates, families,
liberties of a city or civil state, and the suppressing of uncivil or injurious persons or actions.”
Words of Roger Williams in Timothy Hall, Separating Church and State, p. 79

In his excellent book, Separating Church and State, Timothy Hall explains Williams’
understanding of the two swords:

“Nor did Williams think that toleration required believers in different faiths to leave one
another alone. Proselytization, for him was entirely consistent with religious liberty. He
believed in a militant faith although one whose militancy expressed itself through spiritual
weapons such as preaching and persuasion and prayer rather than through civic
violence. The religious toleration Williams advocated was one that would leave believers free
to undertake spiritual warfare against spiritual error. He sought to sheath the civil sword
so that the sword of spiritual truth could be wielded against apostasy and unbelief.”
Timothy L. Hall, Separating Church and State, p. 29

In language very similar to Revelation 13:11, Roger Williams once said that when a
follower of Christ advocates persecution against those who disagree with him, he is guilty
of ‘the language of the dragon in a lamb’s lip.’

Amazingly, the sentence of banishment against Roger Williams in September of 1635
was not lifted until 1936 when Bill #488 was expunged from the laws of Massachusetts:

“Resolved, that the sentence of expulsion passed against Roger Williams by the General Court
of Massachusetts Bay Colony in the year sixteen hundred and thirty-five be and hereby is
revoked.” Timothy L. Hall, Separating Church and State, p. 39

Concerning the Colonial period in the Colony of Virginia, Southern Baptist minister and
former eight-term Republican Congressman, John Buchanan once said:

“Preachers like Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell should not forget that, in the colony of
Virginia, Baptist ministers were beaten and imprisoned and run out of town for preaching
their dissenting faith, while Anglican ministers were paid with tax funds from the state
treasury.” Quoted by Samuel Rabinove, "Religious Liberty and Church-State Separation:
Why Should We Care?" Speech on April 10, 1986, Vital Speeches of the Day, June 15, 1986,
p. 527.)

Constitutional Fathers and the Bible

Although the founding Fathers were not churchgoers, they were well acquainted with the
Bible. They particularly admired the human Christ and knew all about His trial,
sentencing and execution by a union of the apostate Jewish church with the Roman state.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 100 of 385
They were also cognizant that the apostolic church was persecuted when the apostate
Jewish church influenced the Roman state to do so.

The Founding Documents

The founding documents of the United States are clearly of divine origin. In 1776 the
Declaration of Independence affirmed that all men are created equal and have certain
inalienable rights among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In 1787 the
Constitution was ratified and in 1791 the Bill of Rights. (the first Ten Amendments to the
Constitution).

These three foundational documents were ratified immediately before the papacy
received its deadly wound in 1798. Just as prophecy had predicted, God was providentially
preparing the next world super power to appear on the stage even as the previous power
was on the verge of being mortally wounded.

An examination of the writings of the constitutional fathers reveals that they firmly
believed in the legitimate existence of two kingdoms in the United States that were to
forever remain separate. According to their view, the church was given a spiritual sword
to persuade through the preaching of the Word and the state was given the material
sword to preserve the civil order of society.

The new nation was established upon two great principles:

      Republicanism (representative civil government with the civil sword)
      Protestantism (representative religious government with the religious sword)

During the Middle Ages all civil matters were decided and imposed by the king and all
religious matters were decided and enforced by the Pope. Thus all power in civil and
religious matters flowed from top to bottom. When the king or Pope spoke, the people
were simply expected to obey without question.

The Constitutional Fathers established a revolutionary upside down system of
government that flowed from the bottom up—a government of the people, by the people
and for the people in which citizens could enjoy full civil and religious liberty. The
foundational idea behind this concept was that of two kingdoms in one nation, each with
its own sword and separate from one another.

This was one of the most revolutionary experiments in human history. Ellen White, who
was born just 27 years after the deadly wound was given to the papacy in 1798, describes
the contrast between the oppressive system of the middle ages and the system that the
Constitutional Fathers envisioned and implemented:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 101 of 385
“Among the Christian exiles who first fled to America and sought an asylum from royal
oppression [an oppressive state] and priestly intolerance [an oppressive church] were
many who determined to establish a government upon the broad foundation of civil [state]
and religious [church] liberty. Their views found place in the Declaration of Independence,
which sets forth the great truth that ‘all men are created equal’ and endowed with the
inalienable right to ‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.’ And the Constitution
guarantees to the people the right of self-government, providing that representatives
elected by the popular vote shall enact and administer the laws. Freedom of religious faith
was also granted, every man being permitted to worship God according to the dictates of his
conscience. Republicanism [a state without a king] and Protestantism [a church without
a Pope] became the fundamental principles of the nation.”

Ellen White then makes the following astounding statement in which she describes the
secret of the United States’ greatness:

“These principles are the secret of its power and prosperity.” GC, p. 441

Ellen White further wrote:

“The founders of the nation wisely sought to guard against the employment of secular power
on the part of the church, with its inevitable result—intolerance and persecution.” GC, p. 442

In this way the founding fathers rejected the apostate Roman Catholic view that it is
legitimate for the church to use the power of the state to enforce its beliefs and practices.
Instead, the Founding Fathers established a government that returned to the view of
church and state that had characterized Jesus and the earliest church, one that
separated church and state and guaranteed the freedom to worship God according to the
dictates of conscience.

Let’s take a look at several statements from the writings of the Founders of the nation:

George Washington

George Washington, the first president of the United States and the chair of the Convention
that ratified the Constitution in 1787 wrote to the Baptist Delegation in 1789:

“If I could have entertained the slightest apprehension that the Constitution framed by the
convention where I had the honor to preside might possibly endanger the religious rights of
any ecclesiastical society, certainly I would never have placed my signature on it; and if I
could now conceive that the general government might ever be so administered as to render
the liberty of conscience insecure, I beg you will be persuaded that no one would be more
zealous than myself to establish effectual barriers against the horrors of spiritual
tyranny and every species of religious persecution. For, you doubtless remember, I have


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 102 of 385
often expressed my sentiments that any man, conducting himself as a good citizen and being
accountable to God alone for his religious opinions, ought to be protected in worshiping
the Deity according to the dictates of his own conscience.” George Washington to the Baptist
Delegation, August 8, 1789.

Benjamin Franklin

“When religion is good, I conceive that it will support itself; and when it does not support
itself, and God does not take care to support it, so that its professors are obliged to call for the
help of the civil powers, ‘tis a sign, I apprehend, of it being a bad one.” (Quoted in Clifford
Goldstein, Day of the Dragon, p. 77)

Thomas Jefferson

I have had the privilege of visiting the Jefferson Memorial in Washington D. C. on a
number of occasions. Etched on the white marble of the monument are the memorable
words:

“Almighty God hath created the mind free. All attempts to influence it by temporal
punishment or burdens . . . are a departure from the plan of the Holy Author of our religion .
. . No man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship or ministry or
shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or belief, but all men shall be free
to profess and by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion. I know but one
code of morality for men whether acting singly or collectively.”

Jefferson once wrote:

“The legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as are injurious to others. It
does me no injury for my neighbor to say that there are twenty gods, or no gods. It neither
picks my pocket nor breaks my leg.” (Thomas Jefferson, Writings, p. 285)

And in 1782 Jefferson wrote:

“It is error alone which needs the support of government. Truth can stand by itself.”
(Thomas Jefferson, Notes on Virginia, 1782; from George Seldes, ed., The Great Quotations,
Secaucus, New Jersey: Citadel Press, 1983, p. 363)

Jefferson knew full well about the mechanism of the Inquisition:

“Is uniformity [in matters of religion] attainable? Millions of innocent men, women, and
children, since the introduction of Christianity, have been burnt, tortured, fined,
imprisoned; yet we have not advanced one inch towards uniformity [of belief and
practice]. What has been the effect of coercion? To make one half the world fools and the



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 103 of 385
other half hypocrites. To support roguery and error all over the earth” (Thomas Jefferson,
Notes on Virginia, 1782; from George Seldes, editor., The Great Quotations, Secaucus, New
Jersey: Citadel Press, 1983, p. 363)

Jefferson stated that people should be willing to die as martyrs if necessary in order to
preserve civil and religious liberty:

“To preserve the freedom of the human mind then and freedom of the press, every spirit
should be ready to devote itself to martyrdom; for as long as we may think as we will, and
speak as we think, the condition of man will proceed in improvement.” (Thomas Jefferson,
letter to William Green Mumford, June 18, 1799. From Adrienne Koch, ed., The American
Enlightenment: The Shaping of the American Experiment and a Free Society, New York:
George Braziller, 1965, p. 341)

The Religious Liberty department of the Seventh-day Adventist Church has made it a top
priority to defend the religious freedom of all denominations. When the civil power has
occasionally attempted to restrict the religious freedom of any religious group (even of
Roman Catholics), the Adventists have been among the first to step to the plate to defend it.
Thomas Jefferson explained one reason Adventists feel so strongly about this:

“It behooves every man who values liberty of conscience for himself, to resist invasions of it in
the case of others; or their case may, by change of circumstances, become his own.”
(Thomas Jefferson, letter to Benjamin Rush, April 21, 1803. From Daniel B. Baker, ed.,
Political Quotations, Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1990, p. 189.)

Jefferson warned against the clergy using the power of the state to enforce religion:

“The clergy, by getting themselves established by law and engrafted into the machine of
government, have been a very formidable engine against the civil and religious rights of
man.’ (Letter to J. Moor, 1800)

“History, I believe, furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil
government. This marks the lowest grade of ignorance of which their civil as well as religious
leaders will always avail themselves for their own purposes (Letter to von Humboldt, 1813).

“In every country and in every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty. He is always in
alliance with the despot, abetting his abuses in return for protection to his own.” (Letter to H.
Spafford, 1814)

“To suffer the civil magistrate to intrude his powers into the field of opinion and to restrain
the profession or propagation of principles on supposition of their ill tendency is a dangerous
fallacy which at once destroys all religious liberty, because he being of course judge of that
tendency will make his opinions the rule of judgment and approve or condemn the sentiments



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 104 of 385
of others only as they shall square with or differ from his own” (Statute for Religious Freedom,
1779).

“Reason and free inquiry are the only effectual agents against error. Give a loose to them they
will support the true religion by bringing every false one to their tribunal, to the test of their
investigation. They are the natural enemies of error, and of error only.” (Notes on Virginia,
1785)

Several years after the drawing up and ratification of the founding documents of the nation,
Jefferson could look back with pride at how the experiment had proved a success:

“We have solved by fair experiment the great and interesting question whether freedom of
religion is compatible with order in government and obedience to the laws. And we have
experienced the quiet as well as the comfort which results from leaving everyone to profess
freely and openly those principles of religion which are the inductions of his own reason and
the serious convictions of his own inquiries (Letter to the Virginia Baptists, 1808).

 “. . . our fellow citizens, after half a century of experience and prosperity, continue to
approve the choice we made. May it be to the world, what I believe it will be, (to some parts
sooner, to others later, but finally to all,) the signal of arousing men to burst the chains
under which monkish ignorance and superstition had persuaded them to bind themselves, and
to assume the blessings and security of self-government. That form which we have
substituted, restores the free right to the unbounded exercise of reason and freedom of
opinion. All eyes are opened, or opening, to the rights of man. The general spread of the light
of science has already laid open to every view the palpable truth, that the mass of mankind
has not been born with saddles on their backs, nor a favored few booted and spurred, ready to
ride them legitimately, by the grace of God. These are grounds of hope for others. For
ourselves, let the annual return of this day [Fourth of July] forever refresh our recollections of
these rights, and an undiminished devotion to them....” (Thomas Jefferson, letter to Roger C.
Weightman, June 24, 1826 [Jefferson's last letter, dated ten days before he died]; from
Adrienne Koch, ed., The American Enlightenment: The Shaping of the American Experiment
and a Free Society, New York: George Braziller, 1965, p. 372)

Some have argued that Jefferson believed that only the Federal Government was bound by
the First Amendment and not the individual states. Such a fallacious argument has
consistently been proved wrong by the Fourteenth Amendment where it is made clear
that the First Amendment of the Federal Constitution applies to the individual States.
Jefferson stated:

“I consider the government of the United States as interdicted by the Constitution from
intermeddling in religious institutions, their doctrines, discipline, or exercises. This results not
only from the provision that no law shall be made respecting the establishment or free



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 105 of 385
exercise of religion [the First Amendment], but from that also which reserves to the states
the powers not delegated to the United States. Certainly, no power to prescribe any religious
exercise or to assume authority in religious discipline has been delegated to the General
Government. It must rest with the States, as far as it can be in any human authority.” (Letter
to Samuel Miller, Jan. 23, 1808)

Danbury Baptism Association

In a letter addressed to the Danbury Baptist Association in 1802, Thomas Jefferson
expressed his understanding of the first two clauses of the first amendment by using the
wall metaphor that he possibly borrowed from Roger Williams:

“Believing with you [the Danbury Baptists] that religion is a matter which lies solely
between Man and his God, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship,
that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate
with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their
legislature should "make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," thus building a wall of separation between Church and State.”

Certainly Thomas Jefferson knew far better the intent of the First Amendment than those
who now boldly attempt to rewrite and reinterpret it.
It will be noticed that while the first two clauses of the First Amendment guarantee
religious liberty, the third clause guarantees full civil rights—freedom of speech,
freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom to petition the government for a
redress of grievances.

Thus, encased in the First Amendment to the Constitution we find in a single nation, the
two horns like a lamb—religious and civil liberty. And these principles of religious and
civil liberty are based on the foundational idea that the kingdom of the church and the
kingdom of the state both have a legitimate existence and purpose but should be kept
separate. If the government, at some point in the future, should violate either of the first
two clauses of the First Amendment, the inevitable result will be the loss of the civil
liberties guaranteed by the third clause and inevitably persecution.

James Madison in Memorial and Remonstrance

The climax of the conflict between James Madison and Patrick Henry was the 1784-1785
debate over Henry's Assessment Bill. This tax for the support of religion at first singled
out one sect for preferential treatment, but was later broadened to include all Christian
sects. In its final form, the bill allowed each taxpayer to designate which church should




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 106 of 385
receive his share of the tax. In the absence of such a choice, the legislature was authorized
to apply it to "pious uses."

James Madison's Memorial and Remonstrance is an attack on all forms of establishment
of religion, whether they are selective or general and 'nondiscriminatory.' This document is
also the most concise and articulate statement of the views of the First Amendment's
author concerning what is an establishment of religion. Here most of all we can see that he
had in mind much more than simply a national church.

Helping create a storm of popular protest, the Remonstrance played a key role in killing the
Assessment Bill. Support for the bill varied among different religious groups. Quakers and
Mennonites were immediately skeptical, not surprising since Virginia had recently
considered a special tax on them because they were exempt from serving in the militia.
Presbyterian ministers and leaders initially supported the bill, but the laity came out
strongly against it — especially after the publication of the Remonstrance. Baptists came
out immediately against the bill, supporting a full separation of church and state.

Madison's was not the only effort to kill the bill: there was also a popular uprising against
it, with numerous petitions and over 10,000 signatures submitted to the legislature before
the vote. Some were based on religious principles while others were explicit in their
secularism, even going so far as to reject the idea that religion is at all necessary for public
morality.

Religious Freedom in Virginia and America

The defeat of the Assessment Bill cleared the way for Jefferson's Bill for Establishing
Religious Freedom. Madison drove it through in January of 1786, seven years after it was
first introduced. The next year, Madison became a member of the Constitutional
Convention where he could work to secure religious liberty for the entire nation.

Madison believed that, under the Constitution, "there is not a shadow of right in the general
government to intermeddle with religion" and that "this subject is, for the honor of America,
perfectly free and unshackled. The Government has no jurisdiction over it . . . "Despite this, he
promised he would get a Bill of Rights added to the Constitution to specifically guarantee
religious freedom. Virginia and other states ratified the Constitution partially on the
strength of such promises.

At no point is Madison more unrelenting than in his opposition to state support or aid for
religion. Not even 'three pence' contribution was to be taken from any citizen for such a
purpose. "If it were lawful to impose a small tax for religion the admission would pave the



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 107 of 385
way for oppressive levies." Not the amount but "the principle of assessment" itself was wrong.
For Madison, his struggle was as much to prevent "the interference of law in religion" as to
restrain religious intervention in political matters. He recognized that these were two sides
of the same coin.

Article #4: “Whilst we assert for ourselves a freedom to embrace, to profess and to observe
the Religion which we believe to be of divine origin, we cannot deny an equal freedom to those
whose minds have not yet yielded to the evidence which has convinced us. If this freedom be
abused, it is an offence against God, not against man: To God, therefore, not to man, must an
account of it be rendered.”

Article #7: “Because experience witnesseth that ecclesiastical establishments, instead of
maintaining the purity and efficacy of Religion, have had a contrary operation. During
almost fifteen centuries has the legal establishment of Christianity been on trial. What have
been its fruits? More or less in all places, pride and indolence in the Clergy, ignorance and
servility in the laity, in both, superstition, bigotry and persecution.”

Article #8: “What influence in fact have ecclesiastical establishments had on Civil Society? In
some instances they have been seen to erect a spiritual tyranny on the ruins of the Civil
authority; in many instances they have been seen upholding the thrones of political
tyranny: in no instance have they been seen the guardians of the liberties of the people.
Rulers, who wished to subvert the public liberty, may have found an established Clergy
convenient auxiliaries. A just Government instituted to secure & perpetuate it needs them not.
Such a Government will be best supported by protecting every Citizen in the enjoyment of
his Religion with the same equal hand which protects his person and his property; by neither
invading the equal rights of any Sect, nor suffering any Sect to invade those of another.”

Article #9: “Because the proposed establishment is a departure from the generous policy,
which, offering an Asylum to the persecuted and oppressed of every Nation and Religion,
promised a luster to our country, and an accession to the number of its citizens. What a
melancholy mark is the Bill of sudden degeneracy? Instead of holding forth an Asylum to the
persecuted, it is itself a signal of persecution. It degrades from the equal rank of Citizens all
those whose opinions in Religion do not bend to those of the Legislative authority. Distant as
it may be in its present form from the Inquisition, it differs from it only in degree. The
one is the first step, the other the last in the career of intolerance.”

Article #11: “Torrents of blood have been spilt in the old world, by vain attempts of the
secular arm, to extinguish Religious discord, by proscribing all difference in Religious
opinion.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 108 of 385
Article #15: “Because finally, "the equal right of every citizen to the free exercise of his
Religion according to the dictates of conscience" is held by the same tenure with all our
other rights. If we recur to its origin, it is equally the gift of nature; if we weigh its
importance, it cannot be less dear to us; if we consult the "Declaration of those rights which
pertain to the good people of Virginia, as the basis and foundation of Government," it is
enumerated with equal solemnity, or rather studied emphasis.”

James Madison Statements

In a letter to Edward Livingston, James Madison once stated:

“I observe with particular pleasure the view you have taken of the immunity of religion
from civil jurisdiction, in every case where it does not trespass on private rights or the
public peace.” (Quoted in Timothy Hall, Separating Church and State, p. 145

James Madison, who is called the ‘Father of the Constitution,’ expressed his views on the
relationship between religion and the government:

“There is not a shadow of right in the general government to intermeddle with religion. Its
least interference with it [religion] would be a most flagrant usurpation. I can appeal to my
uniform conduct on this subject that I have warmly supported religious freedom.”

“An alliance or coalition between Government and religion cannot be too carefully guarded
against . . . Every new and successful example therefore of a PERFECT SEPARATION between
ecclesiastical and civil matters is of importance . . . religion and government will exist in
greater purity, without (rather) than with the aid of government.” [James Madison in a
letter to Livingston, 1822, from Leonard W. Levy- The Establishment Clause, Religion and
the First Amendment, page 124]

“We are teaching the world the great truth that Governments do better without Kings and
Nobles than with them [republicanism]. The merit will be doubled by the other lesson that
Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the aid of Government
[Protestantism].” [James Madison, Letter to Edward Livingston, July 10, 1822 The Writings
of James Madison, Gaillard Hunt].

“[I]t may not be easy, in every possible case, to trace the line of separation between the rights
of religion and the Civil authority with such distinctness as to avoid collisions and doubts on
unessential points. The tendency to usurpation on one side or the other, or to a corrupting
coalition or alliance between them, will be best guarded against by an entire abstinence of
the Gov't from interference in any way whatsoever, beyond the necessity of preserving
public order, and protecting each sect against trespasses on its legal rights by others.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 109 of 385
[James Madison, in a letter to Rev Jasper Adams spring 1832, from James Madison on
Religious Liberty, edited by Robert S. Alley, pp. 237-238]

“It was the Universal opinion of the Century preceding the last, that Civil Government could
not stand without the prop of a religious establishment; and that the Christian religion
itself, would perish if not supported by the legal provision for its clergy. The experience of
Virginia conspicuously corroborates the disproof of both opinions. The Civil Government,
though bereft of everything like an associated hierarchy, possesses the requisite stability and
performs its functions with complete success; whilst the number, the industry, and the
morality of the priesthood, and the devotion of the people have been manifestly increased by
the TOTAL SEPARATION OF THE CHURCH FROM THE STATE.” [James Madison, as quoted
in Robert L. Maddox: Separation of Church and State; Guarantor of Religious Freedom]

“We hold it for a fundamental and undeniable truth that religion, or the duty which we owe
our Creator, and the manner of discharging it, can be directed only by reason and conviction,
not by force or violence. The religion, then, of every man must be left to the conviction and
conscience of every man: and that it is the right of every man to exercise it as these may
dictate.” [James Madison, Memorial and Remonstrance to the Assembly of Virginia]

“No distinction seems to be more obvious than that between spiritual and temporal
matters. Yet whenever they have been made objects of Legislation, they have clashed and
contended with each other, till one or the other has gained the supremacy.” [James Madison
in a letter to Thomas Jefferson Oct-Nov 1787]

“The experience of the United States is a happy disproof of the error so long rooted in the
unenlightened minds of well-meaning Christians, as well as in the corrupt hearts of
persecuting usurpers, that without a legal incorporation of religious and civil polity, neither
could be supported. A mutual independence is found most friendly to practical Religion, to
social harmony, and to political prosperity.” [James Madison, Letter to F.L. Schaeffer, Dec
3, 1821]

Sometimes when I am lecturing on this subject I ask the question: To how many kingdoms
do Christians in the United States belong?

The fact is that Christians are citizens of two kingdoms in a single country. We are
citizens of the United States by birth and we are citizens of the heavenly kingdom by the
new birth. We have an earthly passport that identifies our earthly country of origin and
we have a heavenly passport, the blood of the Lamb, which identifies us as citizens of
Christ’s heavenly kingdom, the church.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 110 of 385
Inconsistent Founding Fathers

Some revisionist historians such as David Barton have shown that the founders did not
always abide by their own principles of separation of church and state. This is true but the
conclusion that Barton draws from it is false. Timothy Hall explains one example of an
egregious contradiction between Madison’s opinions and his actions:

“His [Madison’s] actions did not always coincide with his professed opinions, particularly
with those he professed late in life. For example, it has been noted that on the same day
Madison introduced Jefferson’s Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom in the Virginia
legislature [bill #84], he also introduced a bill for the punishment of Sabbath-breakers
[horns like a lamb but speaks like a dragon].” Timothy Hall, Separating Church and State,
p. 136

Madison pushed through the Virginia Legislature a bill that was called: “A Bill for Punishing
Disturbers of Religious Worship and Sabbath Breakers”.

This was clearly a religious law established by the Virginia Legislature and thus a violation
of Madison’s and Jefferson’s principles. Thus, early in the history of the United States even
the founding fathers were doing exactly what the land beast of Revelation would eventually
do: Claiming to uphold two principles while at the same time undermining them.

Madison’s bill stated:
“If any person on Sunday shall himself be found laboring at his own or any other trade of
calling, or shall employ his apprentices, servants or slaves in labor, or other business, except it
be in the ordinary household he shall forfeit the sum of ten shillings for every such offense.”

This is the same James Madison who is called ‘the Father of the Constitution’. But Madison
was not in this alone. What is even more tragic is that Thomas Jefferson wrote the actual
wording of this bill, and this at about the same time that Jefferson wrote (Bill #82) “The Bill
for Establishing Religious Freedom” in which he stated that:

“No man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship, place, or ministry
whatsoever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or burdened in his body or goods, nor
shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or beliefs; but that all men shall be
free to profess and by argument to maintain, their opinion in matters of religion, and that the
same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities.”

It is important to remember that both of these laws were enacted in 1786, five years before
the First Amendment was included in the Constitution. Perhaps Madison and Jefferson had
matured somewhat in their ideas when they drew up the First Amendment to the
Constitution five years later.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 111 of 385
The founding fathers were not always consistent in living up to their principles. The
Declaration of Independence states that all men are created equal and have been
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights among which are the right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness and yet the founding fathers all had slaves to whom
these rights were denied. Does this make the statement in the Declaration of Independence
untrue? No, they simply did not abide by their own principles.

This inconsistency does not prove that the founders did not believe in a strict separation of
church and state. All it proves is how easy it would be for the United States to contradict
its own principles. Remember, the land beast has two horns like a lamb and yet speaks
like a dragon. Even in its early history the founders showed how the United States could
stand for the two principles and yet contradict them in actual practice.

John Adams and the Treaty of Tripoli

On June 10, 1797, the year before the deadly wound was given to the Roman Catholic
papacy, president John Adams signed into law the Treaty of Tripoli that unambiguously
stated:

“The Government of the United States is not in any sense founded upon the Christian
religion.”

Notably, President Adams sent this treaty to the Senate in May of 1797 where it was read
aloud to all of the senators who were present and printed copies were also given to each
Senator. The vote to ratify the treaty was unanimous! Notably, the treaty was printed in
full in several newspapers in Philadelphia and New York City and there was not even a
whimper of protest from the general public. None of the Senators paid a heavy price for
signing the treaty.

The views of John Adams on religious liberty are broad and clear:

“We think ourselves possessed, or, at least, we boast that we are so, of liberty of conscience on
all subjects, and of the right of free inquiry and private judgment in all cases, and yet how far
are we from these exalted privileges in fact! There exists, I believe, throughout the whole
Christian world, a law which makes it blasphemy to deny or doubt the divine inspiration of all
the books of the Old and New Testaments, from Genesis to Revelations. In most countries of
Europe it is punished by fire at the stake, or the rack, or the wheel. In England itself
boring through the tongue with a red-hot poker punishes it. In America it is not better; even in
our own Massachusetts, which I believe, upon the whole, is as temperate and moderate in
religious zeal as most of the States, a law was made in the latter end of the last century,
repealing the cruel punishments of the former laws, but substituting fine and



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 112 of 385
imprisonment upon all those blasphemers upon any book of the Old Testament or New. Now,
what free inquiry, when a writer must surely encounter the risk of fine or imprisonment for
adducing any argument for investigating into the divine authority of those books? Who would
run the risk of translating Dupuis? But I cannot enlarge upon this subject, though I have it
much at heart. I think such laws a great embarrassment, great obstructions to the
improvement of the human mind. Books that cannot bear examination certainly ought not to
be established as divine inspiration by penal laws. It is true, few persons appear desirous to
put such laws in execution, and it is also true that some few persons are hardy enough to
venture to depart from them. But as long as they continue in force as laws, the human mind
must make an awkward and clumsy progress in its investigations. I wish they were
repealed. The substance and essence of Christianity, as I understand it, is eternal and
unchangeable, and will bear examination forever, but it has been mixed with extraneous
ingredients, which I think will not bear examination, and they ought to be separated.
Adieu.” (John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson, January 23, 1825. Adams was 90, Jefferson
81 at the time; both died on July 4th of the following year, on the 50th anniversary of the
signing of the Declaration of Independence. From Adrienne Koch, ed., The American
Enlightenment: The Shaping of the American Experiment and a Free Society, New York:
George Braziller, 1965, p. 234.)

The First Amendment

It has become fashionable today for Christian activists to say that separation of church
and state was established only to protect the rights of the church from the encroachment
of the state but just the opposite is true. The history of the middle Ages and the colonial
period proves beyond any doubt that the greater danger is for the church to use the state
to accomplish its mission.

Frequently Christian activists will also say that separation of church and state appears
nowhere in the Constitution. Technically this is true if we mean that the actual
expression: “separation of church and state” is not in the Constitution. However, although
the specific expression is not found in the Constitution, the concept is clearly and
explicitly contained in the First Amendment to the Constitution:

“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion [clause #1], or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof [clause #2]; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for
a redress of grievances [clause #3].”

Some contemporary Christian activists have even gone so far as to say that the First
amendment applies to the federal government but does not apply to the states. But the




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 113 of 385
Supreme Court on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment has overturned this idea
consistently.

Notice that the intent of the First Amendment is not to forbid the establishment of a church
or one religion over and above another church or another religion. The word ‘religion’ in
the First Amendment is not preceded by a definite or an indefinite article.

Clearly, the First Amendment forbids Congress from drawing up laws that have anything to
do with religion, period. In this sense the Constitution clearly contains the concept of the
separation of church and state because the state is forbidden to make laws that
establish religion or prohibit its free exercise. Thus the state can have nothing to do
with religion except to protect everyone’s right to practice it freely according to the
dictates of their own conscience. Of course people are not permitted to disobey legitimate
civil laws in the name of religion such as flying airplanes into the World Trade Center.
Someone has expressed it this way: “Your freedom ends where my nose begins.”

Vision of the Founding Fathers

What the founding fathers envisioned was not a Christian Nation but rather a nation of
Christians. Their ideal was that the church should do the work implanting Christ’s
kingdom in the human heart by teaching honesty, chastity, respect for life and property,
family values, etc. In this way, society would be leavened from within and would be moral
and righteous.
The idea was not that the government should impose by legislation the moral values of the
church to make society moral. This is not the mission of the church. The mission of the
church is to leaven society by the preaching of the Word of God so that society can be
transformed from the inside out, not from outside in. This is what is taught in the parable of
the leaven (Matthew 13:33).

Thomas Paine

Thomas Paine (whom Ellen White strongly condemned as an infidel stating that he would
come up in the second resurrection at the end of the millennium) was an enemy of the
Bible and religion, nevertheless he had some interesting things to say about the
relationship between church and state:

“Persecution is not an original feature in any religion; but it is always the strongly-marked
feature of all law-religions, or religions established by law. Take away the law-
establishment, and every religion re-assumes its original benignity.” (Thomas Paine, The
Rights of Man, 1791-1792. From Gorton Carruth and Eugene Ehrlich, eds., The Harper Book
of American Quotations, New York: Harper & Row, 1988, pp. 499-500.)



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 114 of 385
The founding fathers believed that freedom of religion was an inalienable right and that is
why Thomas Paine stated the following:

“Toleration is not the opposite of intolerance but the counterfeit of it. Both are
despotisms: the one assumes to itself the right of withholding liberty of conscience, the other
of granting it.” (Thomas Paine, The Rights of Man, p. 58. As quoted by John M. Swomley,
Religious Liberty and the Secular State: The Constitutional Context, Buffalo, NY:
Prometheus Books, 1987, p. 7. Swomley added, "Toleration is a concession; religious liberty
is a right.")

Isaac Backus

“Religious matters are to be separated from the jurisdiction of the state not because they
are beneath the interests of the state, but, quite to the contrary, because they are too high
and holy and thus are beyond the competence of the state.” (Isaac Backus, An Appeal to
the Public for Religious Liberty, 1773, as quoted by Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr,
compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press,
1991, p. 7.)

Patrick Henry

“That religion, or the duty we owe to our Creator, and the manner of discharging it, can be
directed only by reason and conviction, not by force or violence; and therefore all men are
equally entitled to the free exercise of religion, according to the dictates of conscience.”
(Patrick Henry [1736-1799], American patriot and statesman, Virginia Bill of Rights, June
12, 1776. From Daniel B. Baker, ed., Political Quotations, Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1990,
p. 189)

Samuel West

“For the civil authority to pretend to establish particular modes of faith and forms of
worship, and to punish all that deviate from the standards which our superiors have set up, is
attended with the most pernicious consequences to society. It cramps all free and rational
inquiry, fills the world with hypocrites and superstitious bigots--nay, with infidels and
skeptics; it exposes men of religion and conscience to the rage and malice of fiery, blind
zealots, and dissolves every tender tie of human nature. And I cannot but look upon it as a
peculiar blessing of Heaven that we live in a land where everyone can freely deliver his
sentiments upon religious subjects, and have the privilege of worshipping God according to
the dictates of his own conscience, without any molestation or disturbance--a privilege which
I hope we shall ever keep up and strenuously maintain.” (Samuel West, Dartmouth, MA,
Election Sermon, 1776, as quoted by Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great
Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 103.)


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 115 of 385
John Leland

“Is conformity of sentiments in matters of religion essential to the happiness of civil
government? Not at all. Government has no more to do with the religious opinions of men
than it has with the principles of the mathematics. Let every man speak freely without fear--
maintain the principles that he believes--worship according to his own faith, either one God,
three Gods, no God, or twenty Gods; and let government protect him in so doing, i.e., see
that he meets with no personal abuse or loss of property for his religious opinions. Instead of
discouraging him with proscriptions, fines, confiscation or death, let him be encouraged, as a
free man, to bring forth his arguments and maintain his points with all boldness; then if his
doctrine is false it will be confuted, and if it is true (though ever so novel) let others credit it.
When every man has this liberty what can he wish for more? A liberal man asks for nothing
more of government.” (John Leland, "The Rights of Conscience Inalienable, and Therefore
Religious Opinions not Cognizable by Law" [a pamphlet], New London, Connecticut, 1791.
Reprinted in Mortimer Adler, ed., 1784-1796, Organizing the New Nation: The Annals of
America, Vol. 3, Chicago: Encyclopedia Brittanica, 1968, pp. 447-448. Leland was a Baptist
minister who refused to support the Constitution until Madison persuaded him that the
Constitution would not undermine religious liberty)

“The liberty I contend for is more than toleration. The very idea of toleration is despicable;
it supposes that some have a pre-eminence above the rest to grant indulgence whereas all
should be equally free, Jews, Turks [Muslims], Pagans and Christians. Test oaths and
established creeds should be avoided as the worst of evils.” (Baptist minister John Leland,
1820, as quoted by Samuel Rabinove, "Church and State Must Remain Separate," in Julie S.
Bach, ed., Civil Liberties: Opposing Viewpoints, St. Paul: Greenhaven Press, 1988, p. 53)

Other Thinkers

Henry Clay, 1818: “All religions united with government are more or less inimical to
liberty. All separated from government, are compatible with liberty.” (Henry Clay, 1777-
1852, Speech in the House of Representatives, March 24, 1818. From Daniel B. Baker, ed.,
Political Quotations, Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1990, p. 190)

Abraham Lincoln, 1855: “When the Know-Nothings get control, it [the Declaration of
Independence] will read: "All men are created equal except negroes, foreigners and Catholics."
When it comes to this I should prefer immigrating to some country where they make no
pretense of loving liberty--to Russia, for instance, where despotism can be taken pure, and
without the base alloy of hypocrisy.” (Abraham Lincoln, 16th U. S. President [1860-1865],
letter to Joshua F. Speed, August 24, 1855, according to Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr,
compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press,
1991, pp. 59-60.)



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 116 of 385
Millard Fillmore, 1856: “I am tolerant of all creeds. Yet if any sect suffered itself to be used
for political objects I would meet it by political opposition. In my view church and state
should be separate, not only in form, but fact. Religion and politics should not be
mingled.” (Millard Fillmore, 13th U. S. President [1850-1853], in an address during the
1856 Presidential election, according to Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The
Great Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 35.)

Ulysses S. Grant, 1875: “Encourage free schools, and resolve that not one dollar of
money shall be appropriated to the support of any sectarian school. Resolve that neither the
state nor nation, or both combined, shall support institutions of learning other than those
sufficient to afford every child growing up in the land the opportunity of a good common
school education, unmixed with sectarian, pagan, or atheistical tenets. Leave the matter of
religion to the family altar, the church, and the private schools, supported entirely by private
contributions. Keep the church and state forever separated.” (Ulysses S. Grant, 18th U.S.
President [1869-1877], speech before the Army of the Tennessee, Des Moines, Iowa, 1875;
from George Seldes, ed., The Great Quotations, Secaucus, New Jersey: Citadel Press, 1983, p.
288)

Jeremiah S. Black, 1885: “[The] manifest object of the men who framed the institution of
this country, was to have a State without religion and a Church without politics--that is to
say, they meant that one should never be used as an engine for the purposes of the other . . .
For that they built up a wall of complete partition between the two.” (Jeremiah S. Black,
noted constitutional advocate, Essays and Speeches, D. Appleton and Co., 1885. As quoted
by Leo Pfeffer, "The Establishment Clause: The Never-Ending Conflict," in Ronald C. White
and Albright G. Zimmerman, An Unsettled Arena: Religion and the Bill of Rights, Grand
Rapids, Michigan: William B. Eerdman’s Publishing Company, 1990, p. 72)

Theodore Roosevelt, 1908: If there is one thing for which we stand in this country, it is for
complete religious freedom, and it is an emphatic negation of this right to cross-examine
a man on his religion before being willing to support him for public office. (Theodore
Roosevelt, 26th U. S. President [1901-1909], letter to J. C. Martin, November 9, 1908,
according to Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious
Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 83.)

Alfred E. Smith, 1927: “I believe in absolute freedom of conscience for all men and
equality of all churches, all sects, and all beliefs before the law as a matter of right and not
as a matter of favor. I believe in the absolute separation of church and state and in the
strict enforcement of the Constitution that Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. I believe that no tribunal of
any church has any power to make any decree of any force in the law of the land, other than
to establish the status of its own communicants within its own church.” (Alfred E. Smith,



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 117 of 385
Governor of New York and Democratic candidate for President in 1928; in Atlantic
Monthly, April, 1927, according to Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great
Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 89.)

John F. Kennedy, 1959: “It is my firm belief that there should be separation of church and
state in the United States--that is, that both church and state should be free to operate,
without interference from each other in their respective areas of jurisdiction. We live in a
liberal, democratic society which embraces wide varieties of belief and disbelief. There is no
doubt in my mind that the pluralism which has developed under our Constitution, providing
as it does a framework within which diverse opinions can exist side by side and by their
interaction enrich the whole, is the most ideal system yet devised by man. I cannot conceive
of a set of circumstances which would lead me to a different conclusion.” (John F. Kennedy,
35th U.S. President [1961-1963]; letter to Glenn L. Archer, February 23, 1959, according to
Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty,
Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 54.)

Lyndon B. Johnson, 1964: “I believe in the American tradition of separation of church and
state which is expressed in the First Amendment to the Constitution. By my office--and by my
personal conviction--I am sworn to uphold that tradition.” (Lyndon B. Johnson, 36th U. S.
President [1963-1969]; interview, Baptist Standard, October, 1964, according to Albert
Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long
Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 50.)

Carl N. Degler, 1970: “In the eighteenth century the American principle of separation of
Church and State was indeed an audacious experiment. Never before had a national state
been prepared to dispense with an official religion as a prop to its authority and never before
had a church been set adrift without the support of the state. Throughout most of
American history the doctrine has provided freedom for religious development while
keeping politics free of religion. And that, apparently, had been the intention of the
Founding Fathers.” (Carl N. Degler, Out of Our Past: The Forces That Shaped Modern
America [Revised ed.], New York: Harper & Row, 1970, p. 96)

Gerald R. Ford, 1976: “I believe that prayer in public schools should be voluntary. It is
difficult for me to see how religious exercises can be a requirement in public schools,
given our Constitutional requirement of separation of church and state. I feel that the highly
desirable goal of religious education must be principally the responsibility of church and
home. I do not believe that public education should show any hostility toward religion, and
neither should it inhibit voluntary participation, if it does not interfere with the educational
process.” (Gerald R. Ford, 38th President [1974-1977], in an interview with Los Angeles
Herald-Examiner, October 9, 1976 [p. A-8], according to Alan F. Pater and Jason R. Pater,




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 118 of 385
compilers and editors, What They Said in 1976: The Yearbook of Spoken Opinion, Beverly
Hills, CA: Monitor Book Co., 1977, p. 522.)

Sam J. Ervin, Jr. 1983: “Many sincere persons charge that the school-prayer cases show the
Supreme Court to be hostile to religion. This charge is untrue and unjust. In these cases
the Supreme Court was faithful to its judicial duty. It enforced the First Amendment, which
commands government to maintain strict neutrality respecting religion, neither aiding nor
opposing it.” (Sam J. Ervin, Jr., 1896-1985, U.S. Senator from North Carolina, in Free Inquiry,
Summer 1983; as quoted by Leo Pfeffer, "Prayer in Public Schools: The Court's Decisions,"
in the "Church and State" issue of National Forum: The Phi Kappa Phi Journal, Winter, 1988,
p. 26.)

“Government is contemptuous of true religion when it confiscates the taxes of Caesar to
finance the things of God.” (Sam J. Ervin, Jr., 1896-1985, U.S. Senator from North Carolina,
in an "Open Letter to President Reagan," Congressional Record, April 29, 1982, according to
Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers, The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty,
Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 33.)

“If religious freedom is to endure in America, the responsibility for teaching religion to public
school children must be left to the homes and churches of our land, where this responsibility
rightfully belongs. It must not be assumed by the government through the agency of the public
school system.” (Sam J. Ervin, Jr., 1896-1985, U.S. Senator from North Carolina, in Preserving
the Constitution, Michie, 1984, according to Albert Menendez and Edd Doerr, compilers,
The Great Quotations on Religious Liberty, Long Beach, CA: Centerline Press, 1991, p. 33.)

Leonard W. Levy, 1986: “The wall of separation ensures the government's freedom from
religion and the individual's freedom of religion. The second probably cannot flourish
without the first.” (Leonard W. Levy, The Establishment Clause: Religion and the First
Amendment, 1986. From Gorton Carruth and Eugene Ehrlich, eds. The Harper Book of
American Quotations, New York: Harper & Row, 1988, p. 499.)

John M. Swomley, 1987: “Voluntary, individual, silent prayer has never been banned or
discouraged in the public schools. The Supreme Court has banned state-sponsored religious
services. Those who advocate prayer services in the public schools do not want voluntary
prayer. They want the government to be officially involved in promoting and sponsoring
prayer services so as to put pressure on children to engage in public prayer. They apparently
do not care whether parents want their children to engage in public prayer or be
indoctrinated with sectarian religious ideas. The object is to provide a captive classroom
audience that will be exposed to the prayers of those with a religious message, which they
deliver in the form of a prayer.” (John M. Swomley, Religious Liberty and the Secular State:
The Constitutional Context, Buffalo, NY: Prometheus Books, 1987, p. 128)



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 119 of 385
Leo Pfeffer, 1990: “Recognizing the evils of man acting like God or of man's using
government to help God out in managing the world, the traditional religionists, such as
disciples of Roger Williams, Isaac Backus, and John Leland, joined with the deists in fashioning
a system in which neither belief nor disbelief in God was to be a matter within the jurisdiction
of human government. Both groups sought to secure a government that neither aided nor
injured religion, and for this both the Establishment and Free Exercise Clauses of the
First Amendment were adopted.” (Leo Pfeffer, "The Establishment Clause: The Never-
Ending Conflict," in Ronald C. White and Albright G. Zimmerman, An Unsettled Arena:
Religion and the Bill of Rights, Grand Rapids, Michigan: William B. Eerdmans Publishing
Company, 1990, p. 73 [footnote])

John F. Kennedy

Although a Roman Catholic, John F. Kennedy showed that he clearly understood the
principles upon which the United States was founded when he assured a group of
Protestant pastors in Houston, Texas that he would follow the Constitution rather than
the Pope if he became president. In an address to the Greater Houston Ministerial
Association on September 12, 1960 he eloquently stated:

“I believe in an America where the separation of church and state is absolute; where no
Catholic prelate would tell the President—should he be Catholic—how to act, and no
Protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote; where no church or church
school is granted any public funds or political preference, and where no man is denied public
office merely because his religion differs from the President who might appoint him, or the
people who might elect him.

I believe in an America that is officially neither Catholic, Protestant nor Jewish; where no
public official either requests or accepts instructions on public policy from the Pope, the
National Council of Churches or any other ecclesiastical source; where no religious body seeks
to impose its will directly or indirectly upon the general populace or the public acts of its
officials, and where religious liberty is so indivisible that an act against one church is
treated as an act against all.”

Alexis de Tocqueville, French political thinker and historian, toured the United States in
1831-1833 and after careful observation of the political system he wrote the famous two
volume set, Democracy in America. When he asked American political thinkers why there
was so much peace in the United States, he was told that it was mainly because of the
separation of church and state. In his own words:

“. . . all attributed the peaceful dominion of religion in their country mainly to separation of
church and state. I do not hesitate to confirm that during my stay in America I did not meet



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 120 of 385
a single individual, of the clergy of the laity, who was not of the same opinion.” (Democracy in
America, volume 1, p. 308)

A Dire Warning from Ellen G. White

Ellen White has warned about what will happen in the United States when the First
Amendment is finally trampled upon:

“Protestants have tampered with and patronized popery; they have made compromises and
concessions which papists themselves are surprised to see and fail to understand. Men are
closing their eyes to the real character of Romanism and the dangers to be apprehended from
her supremacy. The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this most dangerous
foe to civil and religious liberty.” GC, p. 566

“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for His people, that they might worship
Him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land over which for long years the
shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land which God has favored by making it the
depository of the pure religion of Christ—when that land shall, through its legislators [it
will be done by Congress], abjure the principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to
Romish apostasy in tampering with God's law--it is then that the final work of the man of sin
will be revealed. Protestants will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of
the Papacy; by a national act [this is an act of Congress] enforcing the false sabbath, they will
give life and vigor [the United States helps the wound to heal by giving the sword back] to the
corrupt faith of Rome, reviving [giving her life again so she must have been dead] her tyranny
and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to work in mighty power for the
vindication of His truth.” Maranatha, p. 179

It is truly amazing that Ellen White would say such a thing at that time!!! Ellen White was
actually saying two things that at the time were inconceivable: 1) The deadly wound of the
papacy would be healed (contrary to Uriah Smith who said at the same time that the
career of the papacy was finished), and 2) the United States would exercise worldwide
influence to make this possible.

Our next topic of discussion will be on the time when the lamb-horned beast will make an
image of the first beast and speak like a dragon.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 121 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 122 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


 LESSON #7 – THE IMAGE OF AND TO THE BEAST

Introduction

In a previous lecture we identified the sea beast of Revelation 13:1-10 as the Roman
Catholic papacy. Next we studied about the land beast of Revelation 13:11 and discovered
that it represents the United States. The two lamblike horns symbolize the fact that the
land beast kingdom, in its founding documents, recognized the simultaneous legitimate
existence of two separate kingdoms within one nation—church and state. These two
separate kingdoms lie at the foundation of the two principles of civil and religious liberty.
In this lesson we want to study the meaning of the image that the land beast will make in
honor of the sea beast.

What is the Image?

In order to understand what the image of the sea beast is, we must first ascertain what
characterized the sea beast because the image is a replica or reflection of it in its honor
(see, for example, Luke 20:24; II Cor. 3:18). It is an image or reflection of the beast and in
honor to it. Thus Ellen White asks:

“But what is the ‘image to the beast’? And how is it to be formed? The image is made by the
two-horned beast, and is an image to the beast. It is also called an image of the beast. Then to
learn what the image is like and how it is to be formed we must study the characteristics of
the beast itself—the papacy.

The crucial question, then, is this: What was the central characteristic of the Roman
Catholic papacy during its heyday?

We have found that the answer to this question revolves around the sword. As stated
before, the word ‘papacy’ refers to a church that employs the power of the state to



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 123 of 385
accomplish its own purposes. Thus the land beast must lend the power of the sword to the
first beast in its honor. Ellen White explains clearly and succinctly what the image is:

“When the early church became corrupted by departing from the simplicity of the gospel and
accepting heathen rites and customs, she lost the Spirit and power of God; and in order to
control the consciences of the people [because the Holy Spirit no longer did], she sought the
support of the secular power. The result was the papacy, a church that controlled the
power of the state [notice here that Ellen White clearly defines the meaning of the word
‘papacy’ as the union of church and state] and employed it to further her own ends,
especially for the punishment of ‘heresy.’ In order for the United States to form an image of the
beast, the religious power [the church] must so control the civil government [must have
the power of the secular sword] that the authority of the state will also be employed by
the church to accomplish her own ends” GC, p. 443

As we have seen, the papacy during the 1260 years united the church with the state and
then used the punitive sword of the state to punish those who dissented from her
doctrines and practices. Apostate Protestantism in the United States—the land beast—will
make a replica of this. Especially the spiritual leaders will work upon the secular power to
safeguard their institutions and to punish those who dissent. In this way they will make an
image of the mother from whom they were born.

By making an image of the first beast, the United States will disown and contradict its own
founding principles and make an image or replica of what the papacy did during the 1260
years. As a result, much of the history of what the papacy did to John Hus and the
Sanhedrin did to Jesus will be repeated in the end time.

We have already interpreted the meaning of the two horns like a lamb—a single nation
composed of two separate kingdoms—church and state. But what is the meaning of the
dragon’s voice? In order to answer this question we must review what the dragon
represents.

The Identity of the Dragon

Let’s review some details about the identity of the dragon. The dragon is the central
protagonist of Revelation 12 and 13. As we have seen, it primarily represents Satan
(Revelation 12:7-9) but it also represents the Roman Empire (Revelation 12:3 [Daniel
7:23]; Matthew 2:16). Thus the beast that rises from the earth yet speaks like a dragon
must be a spokesman not only for Satan but also for Rome.

It was Satan who stood next to the woman to devour her child as soon as He was born.
Satan operated through the instrumentality of Herod, a ruler of the Roman Empire
(Revelation 12:3 [Daniel 7:23] Matthew 2:16).



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 124 of 385
When Imperial Rome (represented by the dragon) disintegrated, we are told that it gave
its throne, its power and its great authority to the sea beast (Revelation 13:2). That is to
say, the papacy continued to exercise the powers of the dragon—Satan and Rome for 1260
years. But then it received the deadly wound.

After convalescing for a period of time with the deadly wound, the wound will be healed by
the land beast who will speak like a dragon. This must mean that the land beast will not
only be a spokesman for Satan but also for Rome. And so, the dragon, the sea beast and
the land beast are all agents of Satan who operates through Rome.

This phenomenon of Satan operating through the instrumentality of Rome can be clearly
discerned in the chronological sequence of events in Revelation 12:

      It was the dragon—Satan through pagan Rome—who attempted to kill the male
       child (Revelation 12:1-5)

      It was the dragon—Satan through papal Rome—who persecuted the woman for
       1260 years after the child ascended to heaven (Revelation 12:5, 6, 13-15).

      It will be the dragon—Satan through resurrected papal Rome with the aid of
       apostate Protestantism—who will persecute the remnant of the woman’s seed when
       the deadly wound is healed (Revelation 12:17)

      This is the reason why Revelation 13:4 affirms that the world will not only worship
       the beast but it will also worship the dragon from whom the beast received its
       power, its throne and great authority!

The Roman Element

Ellen White made a very interesting remark about the Papacy having a Roman element:

“She [the Papacy] is silently growing into power. Her doctrines are exerting their influence in
legislative halls, in the churches, and in the hearts of men. She is piling up her lofty and
massive structures in the secret recesses of which her former persecutions will be repeated.
Stealthily and unsuspectedly she is strengthening her forces to further her own ends when
the time shall come for her to strike. All that she desires is vantage ground, and this is already
being given her. We shall soon see and shall feel what the purpose of the Roman element
[this is the iron of the legs, the power of the sword] is. Whoever shall believe and obey the
word of God will thereby incur reproach and persecution.” GC, p. 581




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 125 of 385
The United States Speaks

We are told that the nation represented by the land beast will speak like a dragon. The land
beast will command all to worship the image of the first beast and to receive its mark.

The question is: How does the United States speak? The answer is that it speaks through
the representatives that the people have elected. The duly elected representatives of the
congress of the United States are the voice of the people, by the people and for the people.
Ellen White explains:

“The ‘speaking’ of the nation is the action of its legislative and judicial authorities. By such
action it will give the lie to those liberal and peaceful principles which it has put forth as the
foundation of its policy.” GC, p. 442

A Unique Beast

It is significant that Revelation 13:11 is the only time in Bible prophecy where we are
explicitly told what kind of horns a beast had on its head—lamblike horns.

Another unique element of this land beast is that in the prophecy of Daniel 7 each
successive beast fought against, defeated and replaced the previous one. But this lamb
horned beast is radically different than the previous ones. Instead of warring against the
sea beast that immediately preceded it and taking its place, it actually will help the sea
beast recover its lost power and then will honor it by building an image of and to it.

Everything this second beast does is linked with the first beast. It compels the world to
worship the first beast, to make an image of it and to receive its mark. The land beast will
exercise all the authority of the first beast (Revelation 13:14) in the same way that the
first beast exercised all the authority of the dragon beast. Thus there is a passing of the
baton from the dragon to the sea beast to the land beast. We are told that everything this
land beast does is accomplished in the presence [enoopion] of the first beast. The word
‘presence’ is the same one that is used in Revelation 13:13 where the land beast makes fire
come down from heaven in the presence of men, obviously to impress them!

The text is clear that the first and second beasts co-exist in history and rule together. The
second is far younger than the first and is subservient to it and does it’s bidding in order to
impress it (Revelation 13:12, 14). We shall find in our study that the land beast will help
the sea beast recover its power by helping tear down three walls that prevent the papacy
from exercising world dominion. The first wall is the one between Protestants and
Catholics. The second wall is the one between church and state and the third wall is the one
between Catholicism and the secular minded worldlings.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 126 of 385
Providential Rise

The terminology of Revelation 13:11 would seem to indicate that this beast from the earth
arises in the providence of God. That is to say, God made this beast by a special creative
act for a special purpose. The terminology used in Genesis 1:24 is very similar to what we
find in Revelation 13:11. In both we are told that God brought forth something out of the
earth by a creative act. This must mean that the beast from the earth represents a
miraculous creative act of God. In contrast, the first beast rises from the sea and the beast
of Revelation 17 rises from the grave or abyss, realms that are under Satan’s dominion.
Regarding the providential rise of the United States Ellen White remarks:

“The greatest and most favored nation upon the earth is the United States. A gracious
Providence has shielded this country, and poured upon her the choicest of Heaven's
blessings. Here the persecuted and oppressed have found refuge. Here the Christian faith in
its purity has been taught. This people have been the recipients of great light and unrivaled
mercies.” Signs of the Times, July 4, 1899

The Two Horns

As we have already seen, the two horns like a lamb represent the two kingdoms that Jesus,
the Lamb, recognized while He was on the earth. In John 18:36 Jesus assured Pilate that
His kingdom is not of this world. These two kingdoms are mentioned explicitly by Jesus in
Matthew 22:21:

"Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are
God's."

Much is being said today in Evangelical circles about the need for Americans to be patriotic
and Christian. It is assumed that in order to be both, the United States government must
support religion through things like inscriptions on our currency, the expression ‘one
nation under God’ in the Pledge of Allegiance, government vouchers for sending children to
religious schools, government mandated school prayer, federal funds for charitable
choice, religious displays on public property and the like.

But as we have already seen, to separate the affairs of the church and the state is Christian
because it is what Christ taught. And it is also patriotic because it is in harmony with the
founding documents of the nation. To join church and state would thus be antichristian
(contrary to what Christ taught) and unpatriotic (contrary to what the founding fathers of
America taught).




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 127 of 385
The First Amendment

Let’s review the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States:

“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion [clause #1] or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof [clause #2] or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the Government for
a redress of grievances [clause #3].”

The first two clauses of the first amendment are known as ‘the establishment clause’ and
‘the free exercise clause’. The third clause guarantees full civil rights. What happens when
either of the first two clauses of the First Amendment is violated?

Let’s turn to Daniel 3 and 6 to find the answer to our question. The events described in
these two chapters are real life examples of what happens when the first two clauses of
the First Amendment are violated. When either of them is violated, the result is that
citizens lose their legitimate civil rights and suffer persecution and ultimately risk losing
the greatest civil right of all—life itself. When either of the first two clauses is violated the
third clause will also fall by the wayside.

The Establishment Clause in Daniel 3

One of the foundational backgrounds to Revelation 13:11-18 is found in Daniel 3. Both of
these passages describe a beast (Nebuchadnezzar for a time lived like a beast), an image, a
command by the civil power to worship the image, and a death decree against dissenters.
And as we shall see in a later lecture, stealthily hidden behind the dimensions of
Nebuchadnezzar’s image (60X6) is the mystic number 666.

In Jeremiah 27:4-8 we are told that God commanded all nations to obey king
Nebuchadnezzar and if they failed to do so He would punish them:

“And command them to say to their masters, "Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel —
thus you shall say to your masters: 5 'I have made the earth, the man and the beast that are
on the ground, by My great power and by My outstretched arm, and have given it to whom it
seemed proper to Me. 6 And now I have given all these lands into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, My servant; and the beasts of the field I have also
given him to serve him. 7 So all nations shall serve him and his son and his son's son, until
the time of his land comes; and then many nations and great kings shall make him serve them.
8 And it shall be, that the nation and kingdom which will not serve Nebuchadnezzar the king
of Babylon, and which will not put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation I
will punish,' says the Lord, 'with the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, until I have
consumed them by his hand.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 128 of 385
Even though God had warned everyone to be subject to king Nebuchadnezzar, in Daniel 3
we find a description of three young men who chose to disobey him. But God, instead of
punishing them for not being subject to the king, rewarded them! Why?

The answer is that in Daniel 3 the civil ruler, Nebuchadnezzar, attempted to establish
religion. He raised an image and commanded all nations, tongues and peoples to
worship it. Those who refused to comply with this religious decree enforced by the state
were to be deprived of the ultimate civil right—life itself! Thus when the king
overstepped his legitimate realm of authority and attempted to establish religion this
automatically led to persecution against those who failed to comply.

The three young men who refused to worship the image are shown elsewhere in the book
to be respectful of the king’s legitimate civil commands but when the king crossed the
line between civil law and religious duty the young men drew a line in the sand. When the
civil power overstepped its legitimate bounds, the three young men chose to obey God
rather than man and as a result they were condemned to the fiery furnace.

In the final instance the three young men had no human court of appeal and it looked like
the king had all the cards. In fact the king defiantly raised his hand to heaven and roared
like a dragon:

“And what god will be able to deliver you from my hand?”

Jesus answered that question when He personally and spectacularly intervened to
deliver His faithful servants from the devouring flames.

The Free Exercise Clause in Daniel 6

The story of Daniel 6 is similar yet different. God had placed Darius to rule in civil affairs
but he overstepped his bounds and gave a religious decree forbidding the free exercise of
religion. Darius was not establishing a religious observance. He was not commanding
everyone to pray to a certain god or in a certain manner. He was simply forbidding the
free exercise right of the people to pray to the God of their choice for a period of thirty
days.

In Daniel six we catch a glimpse of what happens when the free exercise clause of the First
Amendment is violated. When Darius forbade the free exercise of religion in his realm, the
inevitable result was the persecution of Daniel who insisted upon the right of worshiping
his God according to the dictates of his own conscience.

Daniel was loved by the king and is seen elsewhere in the book as a loyal subject to all
the legitimate civil laws of the Medes and Persians. He practiced civil disobedience only
when the king overstepped his legitimate bounds as a civil ruler and pronounced a


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 129 of 385
religious law. When the king crossed the line between civil and religious matters, Daniel
drew a line in the sand and commended his case to God.

On this occasion all the power once again seemed to be in the hands of the enemies of
Daniel. The law of the Medes and Persians could not be changed or revoked so it
appeared that Daniel was doomed to destruction. But as in the case of Daniel’s three
friends, God was the final court of appeal and He intervened in spectacular fashion to
deliver his servant from the lions and from his enemies. So it will be with God’s faithful
remnant people at the end.

Nebuchadnezzar and Darius Oblivious

Significantly, neither Nebuchadnezzar nor Darius got the point that God was trying to
teach them. After God delivered the three young men from the furnace, Nebuchadnezzar
threatened that anyone who said anything against the God of Daniel would be cut in
pieces and their houses razed to the ground (Daniel 3:29). He didn’t yet understand that
God does not force people to embrace true religion any more than the king attempted to
force people to practice false worship. Worship is a matter of personal choice, not a matter
of civil compulsion!

And after Daniel was delivered from the lion’s den, king Darius made a decree that
everyone was obligated to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel (Daniel 6:26, 27).
The king didn’t get the point. People can’t be forced to tremble and fear before God—this
must come from a spontaneous heart that loves Him.

The First Amendment in the End Time

Someone might ask: How is all this related to the United States in the end time?

The prophecy of Revelation 13:11-18 clearly indicates that the United States will eventually
violate both the establishment clause and the free exercise clauses of the First
Amendment. It will not necessarily get rid of them but rather will preserve them in theory
but deny them in practice. The land beast will not only compel all to obey the authority of
the papacy by keeping Sunday thus establishing religion but it will also forbid the
observance of the Sabbath thus forbidding the free exercise thereof. Ellen White
prophetically understood this when she wrote:

“The time will come when men will not only forbid Sunday work, but they will try to force
men to labor on the Sabbath, and to subscribe to Sunday observance or forfeit their freedom
and their lives.” Maranatha, p. 177




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 130 of 385
During the 1260 years the papacy attempted to change the day of worship from Sabbath
to Sunday (Daniel 7:25) and in the future apostate Protestantism in the United States will
enforce that change by compelling all to receive the mark of the beast. A comparison of
Daniel 7:25 with Revelation 13:3-10 reveals some very interesting information. Daniel
7:25 contains four elements that relate to the little horn:

      Speaks great words against the Most High
      Persecutes the saints of the Most High
      Thinks to change times and laws
      Rules for a period of 1260 years

Revelation 13 contains the same elements that relate to the beast but one appears to be
missing:

      Speaks great words and blasphemies against the Most High
      Persecutes the saints of the Most High
      Rules for 42 months

Where is the parallel to the change in the times and laws? The answer is found in the fact
that the land beast will force all to receive the mark of the beast and the mark of the beast
is the change in the Law. Thus, during the 1260 days the papacy thought to change the Law
and in the future it will enforce the change.

When Protestants in the United States enforce the mark of the beast by civil authority, the
process will have come full circle. Just as the papacy destroyed the apostolic view of the
separation of church and state, so apostate Protestantism will overturn the view of
church and state that was established and taught the founding fathers of the United
States.

Aren’t Sunday Laws Unconstitutional?

Someone might legitimately ask: Wouldn’t the establishment of a Sunday law by congress
as the national day of rest be a clear violation of the establishment clause of the first
amendment to the Constitution, especially if it is established because Pope Francis I call for
it? Wouldn’t such a law be clearly unconstitutional?

And a related question: Wouldn’t a congressional law forbidding the observance of the
seventh-day Sabbath also be in violation of the free exercise clause of the First
Amendment and thus also be unconstitutional? The obvious answer of any rational
person to these questions would be yes.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 131 of 385
I am quite sure that when that time comes, the constitutionality of such laws will be
challenged in court. But according to Bible prophecy the remnant’s appeal will fall upon
deaf ears—there will be no redress of grievances for God’s faithful remnant.

Profession and Practice

It bears noting that we are not to expect the eradication of the First Amendment from
the Constitution. The First Amendment will remain in place. But what will most likely
happen is that the Supreme Court will declare in a time of dire national emergency, that
unconstitutional laws are constitutional. After all, we are not told that the two lamblike
horns will be broken before the land beast speaks as a dragon. It will still have the two
horns like a lamb while it speaks like a dragon.

Ellen White poignantly describes this nuance of the prophecy:

“The lamblike horns and dragon voice of the symbol point to a striking contradiction
between the professions and the practice of the nation thus represented. The ‘speaking’ of
the nation is the action of its legislative and judicial authorities. By such action it will give
the lie to those liberal and peaceful principles that it has put forth as the foundation of its
policy. The prediction that it will speak "as a dragon" and exercise "all the power of the first
beast" plainly foretells a development of the spirit of intolerance and persecution that was
manifested by the nations represented by the dragon and the leopardlike beast. And the
statement that the beast with two horns ‘causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to
worship the first beast’ indicates that the authority of this nation is to be exercised in
enforcing some observance which shall be an act of homage to the papacy.

“Such action would be directly contrary to the principles of this government, to the genius of
its free institutions, to the direct and solemn avowals of the Declaration of Independence, and
to the Constitution. The founders of the nation wisely sought to guard against the employment
of secular power on the part of the church, with its inevitable result--intolerance and
persecution. The Constitution provides that ‘Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,’ and that ‘no religious test
shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.’
Only in flagrant violation of these safeguards to the nation's liberty, can civil authority
enforce any religious observance. But the inconsistency of such action is no greater than is
represented in the symbol. It is the beast with lamblike horns--in profession pure, gentle, and
harmless--that speaks as a dragon.” GC, p. 442




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 132 of 385
Three Branches of Government

Our system of government like that of many other nations has three branches:

   1. The executive
   2. The legislative
   3. The judicial

As we know, the legislative branch draws up the laws, the executive branch enforces
them and the judicial branch (especially the Supreme Court) interprets them. I frequently
ask people: Which of these three branches of government is the most powerful? The
answer is usually, the executive. But actually the most powerful branch of government in
the United States is the judicial, particularly the Supreme Court.

And why is this? The answer is quite simple. Congress can write a bill and the president can
sign it into law but if the law is appealed and the Supreme Court declares it
unconstitutional, the bill will not remain law. The flip side is also true: Congress could
draw up a bill that is unconstitutional but if the Supreme Court declares it constitutional
it would be enforced.

The Most Powerful Branch

If you don’t think that the Supreme Court is the most powerful branch of government, just
remember what happened in the presidential election in the year 2,000. All of us most
likely remember the debacle in Florida. Democrats wanted a vote recount and Republicans
did not. After many appeals to various courts of the land, the case was taken to the
Supreme Court and when the Supreme Court spoke, George W. Bush became president
and there was no more discussion. The same could be said about the legalization of gay
marriage on a federal level. On June 26, 2015 the Supreme Court declared gay marriage
constitutional and now all civil magistrates are required to perform gay marriages. Thus
the power to declare a law constitutional or unconstitutional lies in the hands of nine
individuals!

There are now six Roman Catholics on the Supreme Court of the United States: Chief
Justice John Roberts and associate justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas, Anthony
Kennedy, Samuel Alito and Sonia Sotomayor. There is nothing to indicate that the trend
of naming Roman Catholics to the Court will end anytime soon. Catholics compose 25% of
the population of the United States but they own 66% of the Supreme Court!

Roman Catholics have done all in their power to win over Barack Obama to their side and
have been quite successful. Shortly after being elected president, Mr. Obama was invited to
give the Commencement Address at Notre Dame University in the midst of protests and


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 133 of 385
then shortly thereafter Obama nominated Sonia Sotomayor, a Roman Catholic, as the sixth
justice to the Supreme Court. President Obama is also fully on board with Pope Francis on
climate change and world poverty, has referred to him as ‘the holy father’, has discussed
policy matters with him at the White House, and has referred to the Pope as the greatest
moral authority on earth!

The more liberal judges on the Court are getting up in years and most likely will be
replaced in the next few years. Can we fathom what it will be like to have seven or more
Roman Catholics on the Supreme Court?

Ellen White has warned us what will happen when a Protestant government becomes
entangled with the Roman Catholic Papacy:

“They [Christians] do not see that if a Protestant government sacrifices the principles that
have made them a free, independent nation, and through legislation brings into the
Constitution, principles that will propagate papal falsehood and papal delusion, they are
plunging into the Roman horrors of the Dark Ages.” The Review and Herald, December 11,
1888

Some Seventh-day Adventists say that this scenario portrayed by Ellen White is alarmist
or sensationalist, that the Supreme Court justices are patriotic Americans and that they
would never return the United States to the horrors of the dark ages. But Ellen White has
warned to whom Roman Catholics owe their supreme loyalty:

“The Roman Catholic Church, with all its ramifications throughout the world, forms one vast
organization under the control, and designed to serve the interests, of the papal see. Its
millions of communicants, in every country on the globe, are instructed to hold themselves as
bound in allegiance to the pope. Whatever their nationality or their government, they are
to regard the authority of the church as above all other. Though they may take the oath
pledging their loyalty to the state, yet back of this lies the vow of obedience to Rome,
absolving them from every pledge inimical to her interests.” GC, p. 580

Fascination with the Papacy

Many Protestants today are fascinated with the papacy. Prominent political leaders such
as Jeb Bush, Newt Gingrich and Tony Blair have renounced their Protestant heritage and
have converted to the Roman Catholic Church. Many Protestants point to the papacy’s fight
for human rights, for religious freedom, for the poor, for life, for morality, for
conventional marriage and against what John Paul II called the ‘culture of death’. They
believe that the papacy has changed and therefore that there is nothing to fear. Yet the
papacy has not repudiated any of its dogmas nor has it laid aside its aspirations to global
political power. She is harmless when she is helpless. One its leaders once said:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 134 of 385
“In the minority we are a lamb; in equality we are a serpent and in the majority we are a
lion.”

Ellen White added her testimony:

“It is a part of her [the papacy’s] policy to assume the character which will best accomplish
her purpose; but beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon she conceals the
invariable venom of the serpent.” GC, p. 571

Ellen White described the image of the beast over 120 years ago:

“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they might worship
him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land over which for long years the
shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land which God has favored by making it the
depository of the pure religion of Christ—when that land shall, through its legislators,
abjure the principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering
with God's law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants
will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a national act [an
act of congress] enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor to the corrupt faith
of Rome, reviving her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to
work in mighty power for the vindication of his truth.” Signs of the Times, June 12, 1893

When this happens, the United States will have formed a mirror reflection [image] of the
papacy in its honor. Time and again Ellen White warned about the dangers ahead:

“In order for the United States to form an image of the beast, the religious power must so
control the civil government that the authority of the state will also be employed by the
church to accomplish her own ends.” GC, p. 443

“Rome is aiming to re-establish her power, to recover her lost supremacy. Let the principle
once be established in the United States that the church may employ or control the power
of the state; that religious observances may be enforced by secular laws; in short, that the
authority of church and state is to dominate the conscience and the triumph of Rome in
this country is assured.” GC, p. 581

“When the leading churches of the United States, uniting upon such points of doctrine as
are held by them in common, shall influence the state to enforce their decrees and to
sustain their institutions, then Protestant America will have formed an image of the Roman
hierarchy, and the infliction of civil penalties [the state using the sword] upon dissenters
will inevitably result.” GC, p. 445

In this way the land beast of Revelation 13:11 will speak like a dragon, that is, like Rome.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 135 of 385
The first beast of Revelation 13 (the papacy) thought to change the law of God by changing
the day of worship from Sabbath to Sunday. The second beast will enforce this change by
using the sword of the state. The whole world will then be led to follow the example of
the United States.

“As America, the land of religious liberty shall unite with the papacy in forcing the conscience
and compelling men to honor the false sabbath, the people of every country on the globe
will be led to follow her example.” Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, p. 18

How Could It Happen?

How can such a thing happen when the global power of the United States seems to be
waning while the power of nations such as China and Russia seems to be increasing?
Though we still don’t have all the answers to this question several things are clear in Bible
prophecy.

The issue that will galvanize the world into one body will be global survival (see Matthew
24:6-8). No doubt a Sunday law will be enacted in the context of a global economic
meltdown, a series of unprecedented natural disasters perhaps due to climate change, an
alarming increase in crime, unparalleled terrorist attacks and spectacular
manifestations from the spirit world instructing and encouraging the global political
leaders to do away with what they perceive to be the cause of the problems facing the
global community. Then the story of Elijah will be repeated and God’s Remnant people
will be called ‘troublers of the people.’

The argument that was used against Jesus two thousand years ago will be invoked once
again: “It is better for these dissenters to die than for the United States to perish.” (See GC
615) In America this argument will appear patriotic and Christian but it will prove to be
just the opposite. As happened with the Jewish nation, national apostasy will be followed
speedily by national ruin:

“When Protestant churches shall unite with the secular power to sustain a false religion, for
opposing which their ancestors endured the fiercest persecution, then will the papal sabbath
be enforced by the combined authority of church and state. There will be a national
apostasy, which will end only in national ruin.” Evangelism, p. 235

The question is: How will the United States be able to persuade the entire world to follow
its agenda? As mentioned before, global survival will be used as an argument. But there will
also be another factor involved. The beast from the earth will perform powerful and
undeniable miracles to back up its agenda!




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 136 of 385
Miracles and The Image

Before we are able to discuss how miracles will be instrumental in getting the world to buy
the agenda of Sunday legislation, we must say a few things about the three members of the
Godhead.

At the very beginning of Revelation we are introduced to the fact that the Godhead is
composed of three equal beings each with his own personality and individuality but one
in purpose.

      First, we have ‘the one who is and who was and who is to come.’
      Second, we have the seven spirits who are before the throne
      Finally we have Jesus Christ, the faithful witness (Revelation 1:4-5)

In chapters 4 and 5 we once again meet the Father who is seated on the throne (Revelation
4:1, 2), the seven spirits who are before the throne (Revelation 4:5) and the Lamb as
though it had been slain in the midst of the throne (Revelation 5:6).

Each of these persons has a particular function in the plan of salvation. God the Father is
the Monarch of the universe who sits on the throne and is described as the one who ‘is
and was and is to come.’ But the Father delegates His authority to Jesus who carries on His
Father’s work on earth (Matthew 28:18-20).

After receiving authority from His Father, Jesus had a three and a half year ministry at
the end of which He was given a mortal wound (Revelation 5:6 [the identical word used in
Revelation 13:3 to describe the beast’s wound]; see, Isaiah 53:5) but the wound was
healed when he resurrected and the entire world was reached with the message of the
resurrected Christ.

When Jesus ascended to heaven He delegated His authority to the Holy Spirit who spoke
in name of Jesus (John 14:26) and performed his wondrous works even making fire
come down from heaven on the day of Pentecost (Acts 2:1-4). The fire, a symbol of holy
zeal, gave power to preach the gospel and brought conviction to thousands all over the
world who chose to follow Jesus (Acts 2:47; Colossians 1:6)

Satan’s Counterfeit Trinity

According to the book of Revelation Satan has a counterfeit godhead composed of three
entities—the dragon, the beast and the false prophet (Revelation 16:13). These three
powers counterfeit the roles of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.

The dragon counterfeits the role of God the Father because it is described as the one who
‘was and is and is to come’ (Revelation 17:8). He is the one who calls the shots. He in turn


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 137 of 385
delegates his throne and authority to the beast as God the Father delegated His authority
to Jesus (Revelation 13:2).

After the beast receives authority from the dragon, he, like Jesus, has a symbolic three and
a half year ministry (Revelation 13:5). At the end of the three and a half symbolic years,
the beast receives a deadly wound (Revelation 13:3, 9, 10) but the wound is healed
(Revelation 13:3) and the whole world wonders after the beast marveling because of its
miraculous resurrection (see Revelation 17:8).

The false prophet then exercises all the authority of the first beast and speaks for it even
to the point of making fire come down from heaven in the sight of men (Revelation 13:13).
The fire from heaven persuades the multitudes that the message of the false prophet is
true and the whole world wonders after the beast and follows it.

Apocalyptic Elijah’s Three Enemies

Elijah’s three enemies illustrate the functions of each of the members of Satan’s
counterfeit godhead. Elijah had three enemies:

      The first was the political ruler, king Ahab
      The second was the harlot woman Jezebel
      The third was the false prophets of Baal who did the bidding of the harlot.

These three enemies foreshadow the enemies of God’s end time Elijah movement.

The beast from the earth is called THE false prophet (Revelation 16:13). The definite article
indicates that this is a specific false prophet with a proper name. And what is his name?
Elijah. He is a counterfeit Elijah. How do we know that this is true? Because of his actions!

In the Old Testament, Elijah had three enemies: Ahab, Jezebel and the false prophets of
Jezebel. In Revelation we also have three enemies of God’s end time people—the kings, the
harlot, the counterfeit prophet Elijah. Elijah made fire come down from heaven in the
sight of men and this proved that he was God’s messenger. The false prophet will bring fire
down from heaven deceiving the multitudes that he is God’s messenger.

      The first enemy of the end-time Elijah is the dragon that represents the kings of
       the earth and the whole world who commit fornication with the harlot (Revelation
       16:13, 14; 17:2; 18:3)

      The second enemy of the end-time Elijah is identified as the great harlot who sits
       on many waters (Revelation 17:1). This great harlot deceived the nations by her
       sorcery (Revelation 18:23). She is also called the beast.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 138 of 385
      This harlot is called the mother of harlots and of the abominations of the earth. If
       she is the mother then she must have harlot daughters (Revelation 17:5; see also,
       Revelation 2:20-23) who do her bidding. The daughters are also called the false
       prophet.

The harlot sits upon many waters which means that she rules over peoples, multitudes,
nations and tongues (Revelation 17:1, 15)

In order to fully comprehend the relationship among these three end time powers it is also
necessary to study carefully the story of John the Baptist who was called Elijah by Jesus
(Luke 1:17; Matthew 11:11-14; Matthew 17:10-13). The story of Mark 6:18ff is
particularly important.

In the days of Elijah the message of Elijah was proved true when fire came down from
heaven to consume the sacrifices he had placed on the altar. At the end of time the false
prophet will counterfeit this miracle.

Counterfeit Holy Spirit Revival

Ellen White seems to indicate that the fire that will fall from heaven will be literal as on
the Day of Pentecost:

“Satan will work through his agents who have departed from the faith to bring fire down
from heaven in the sight of men.” Selected Messages, volume 2, p. 54

You say: “Literal fire falling from heaven? Are you kidding? Really? How could such a thing
happen?”

How this might occur can be illustrated by some remarks that were made by world-
renowned Pentecostal evangelist and faith healer, Benny Hinn. On Friday evening,
November 13, 2001 I was in a hotel room near Tucson, Arizona and happened to tune into
TBN’s “Praise the Lord” program. Paul Crouch, President of TBN, was interviewing Benny
Hinn about his conversion experience. Hinn explained that before he was a Christian he
had visions and dreams of himself preaching in stadiums before thousands of people. Then
he said this, and I quote:

“In the last twelve months I have been having some new dreams and visions . . . some amazing
dreams. I have been seeing fire. I have seen myself in stadiums where literal fire was falling
from heaven. The glory of God is about to be revealed visibly.”

Benny Hinn then referred to the tongues of fire on the Day of Pentecost, the Elijah
experience on Mt. Carmel and the pillar of fire in the wilderness as proof that in the
future the fire would fall from heaven at his meetings.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 139 of 385
The critical question is this: Would the descent of literal fire from heaven at Hinn’s
meetings be a sign that the Holy Spirit is being poured out and that his message is true? Of
course not! The Bible provides the standard by which all supernatural phenomena must be
tested. Our senses cannot be trusted and our feelings can lead us astray.

Isaiah 8:20 clearly states:

“To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is because
there is no light in them.”

Do Benny Hinn’s teachings square with the Bible? Two items will prove that they don’t.
Hinn claims to speak regularly with the spirits of Katherine Kuhlman and Amee McPherson
at their graves at Forrest Lawn Cemetery in California. He has also gone on the record
stating that Sunday is the day that the Lord has made to be kept by Christians in honor of
the resurrection of Christ.

Ellen White describes a great counterfeit revival in the Christian world just before the
final outpouring of God’s Spirit in the Latter Rain:

“Notwithstanding the widespread declension of faith and piety, there are true followers of
Christ in these churches [the churches identified as Babylon]. Before the final visitation of
God's judgments upon the earth there will be among the people of the Lord such a revival of
primitive godliness as has not been witnessed since apostolic times. The Spirit and power of
God will be poured out upon His children. At that time many will separate themselves from
those churches in which the love of this world has supplanted love for God and His word.
Many, both of ministers and people, will gladly accept those great truths which God has
caused to be proclaimed at this time to prepare a people for the Lord's second coming. The
enemy of souls desires to hinder this work; and before the time for such a movement shall
come, he will endeavor to prevent it by introducing a counterfeit. In those churches which
he can bring under his deceptive power he will make it appear that God's special blessing is
poured out; there will be manifest what is thought to be great religious interest. Multitudes
will exult that God is working marvelously for them, when the work is that of another spirit.
Under a religious guise, Satan will seek to extend his influence over the Christian world.” GC,
p. 464.

Religious Ecumenism

In recent years there has been a growing illegitimate love affair between Protestants and
Catholics in the United States. What factors have fostered this unevenly yoked love fest?
Several theological, sociological and historical factors have converged to foster this
growing intimacy. Let’s examine some highlights.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 140 of 385
In 1517 Martin Luther nailed his 95 Theses on the cathedral door in Wittenberg, an event
which historians mark as the beginning of the Protestant Reformation. This act began the
process of building a wall of separation between Protestants and Roman Catholics. Martin
Luther laid the first bricks in the wall and others such as Calvin and Zwingli made the wall
ever higher.

In order for the Papacy to regain its power, this wall must tumble down. The problem is
that the wall got higher and higher with the passing of time. Colonial America was very
suspicious of the papacy and set up laws to impede its progress. But at no time in its history
was the United States more inimical to the papacy than in the decades of the 1870’s and
1880’s. During this period, Protestants looked upon Roman Catholics with great suspicion
because Pope Pius IX did several things that angered Protestants. First he was
instrumental in the proclamation of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception of Mary in
1854. Then he published his Syllabus of Errors in 1864 and capped it all off by presiding
at Vatican Council I where the Dogma of Papal Infallibility was established in 1870.

These and other actions by the Papacy alienated Protestants in the United States from the
Vatican and made the rift between the two ever broader and deeper. As late as the early
1960’s Protestants were still suspicious and fearful of Roman Catholicism as can be seen
by John F. Kennedy’s explanation of his views of church and state to a pastoral alliance in
Houston, Texas (more on this later)

Vatican Council II (1962-1965)

Until Vatican Council II, Protestants looked upon Roman Catholicism as a Latin babbling,
Bible suppressing, Protestant hating cult. Vatican Council II did much to change this
image. Good old grandfatherly Pope John XXIII presided over the Council in its initial
years. Amazingly, the Vatican extended the hand of fellowship to theologians of prominent
Protestant churches who were invited to attend the Council as observers.

The catchword of the Council was Aggiornamento that is Latin for ‘renewal.’ The Council
encouraged Roman Catholics to study the Bible in small groups (under the careful
supervision and scrutiny of the priests). The Council encouraged an orderly dialogue
between Catholic and Protestant theologians. The Mass could now be said in the languages
that the common people could understand. Protestants were no longer called heretics but
rather ‘separated brethren.’ Even the rite of baptism that was performed in Protestant
churches was accepted as legitimate. To the superficial view of the careless observer,
Roman Catholicism was emerging from the Jurassic age and catching up with the times.

Yet to the careful observer, the changes were merely cosmetic. That is, the Papacy went
through a facelift but under the facelift it remained the same old ugly system. None of
the dogmas of the Catholic Church were changed or reformed. It still considered itself


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 141 of 385
infallible, still taught that Sunday is the Sabbath, that the dead are not dead, that we can
pray to the spirits of departed saints, that sins should be confessed to a human priest,
that hell burns forever, that Mary mediates between Christ and sinners, that man is
justified by faith plus works, that it is acceptable to bow before idols, that Christ is
sacrificed anew in each and every mass, that priests must be celibate, that oral
tradition is of equal authority as Scripture, etc. Yet in the aftermath of the Council the
image of the papacy began to change for the better in the minds of Protestants. The
cosmetic surgery proved to be a success.

Election of JFK

I was just a kid in Caracas, Venezuela back then but I still remember as clearly as today
that in Seventh-day Adventist churches it was whispered that if John F. Kennedy, a Roman
Catholic, won the 1960 election the national Sunday law would be right around the
corner.

There was fear in the United States about having a Catholic president but it was soon
discovered that the fears were unfounded. The expected Sunday law and time of trouble
did not come. What’s more, Kennedy’s views on the relationship between church and state
were identical to those of Protestants so people assumed that Kennedy’s own
understanding was also that of the Roman Catholic Church.

In an address to the Greater Houston Ministerial Association on September 12, 1960
Kennedy eloquently stated:

“I believe in an America where the separation of church and state is absolute; where no
Catholic prelate would tell the President -- should he be Catholic -- how to act, and no
Protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote; where no church or church
school is granted any public funds or political preference, and where no man is denied public
office merely because his religion differs from the President who might appoint him, or the
people who might elect him.

I believe in an America that is officially neither Catholic, Protestant nor Jewish; where no
public official either requests or accepts instructions on public policy from the Pope, the
National Council of Churches or any other ecclesiastical source; where no religious body seeks
to impose its will directly or indirectly upon the general populace or the public acts of its
officials, and where religious liberty is so indivisible that an act against one church is
treated as an act against all.”

Kennedy’s death was a traumatic event for the people of the United States. The optimism
that Kennedy had sown (through the establishment of organizations such as the Peace




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 142 of 385
Corps) in the hearts of the youth was shaken to the core. Whether you loved or hated him,
Kennedy’s death caused a deep trauma in the psyche of the American people.

Ban on Government Sponsored School Prayer

Another event that galvanized Protestants and Catholics and led them to conclude that
government was inimical toward religion was the Supreme Court’s 1962 decision to ban
government sponsored school prayer. In Engel vs. Vitale, a strongly civil-libertarian court,
headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren, ruled that reciting nondenominational prayers
written by government officials violated the Establishment Clause of the Constitution.

The Board of Education of Union Free School District No. 9 in New Hyde Park, New York,
at the time required students to recite a 22-word, nondenominational prayer every
morning. Several parents sued claiming that this prayer requirement violated their
children's freedom of religion. The United States Supreme Court ruled that the daily prayer
ritual violated the First Amendment's Establishment Clause, even though students
were given the opportunity not to participate. The Establishment Clause provides that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion."

The Court wrote an unusual opinion, one that does not cite any cases, or rely on any prior
case law, in support of its decision. Instead, the Court relied on the history of religion and
its relationship with government and warned of the dangers of a union between church
and state. The Court supported its position using historical examples, such as the
notorious religious intolerance in 17th century England that contributed to the European
migration to North America and the founding of the American colonies. The Court wrote:

"It is a matter of history that this very practice of establishing governmentally composed
prayers for religious services was one of the reasons that caused many of our early colonists to
leave England and seek religious freedom in America."

Roe v. Wade

Perhaps no single event in the last forty years has done more to cement the relationship
between Protestants and Catholics and to mobilize them in a common cause than the Roe
v. Wade decision by the Supreme Court in 1973. This decision has mobilized conservative
Protestants and Catholics in a relentless attempt to overturn it. A politician’s attitude
toward Roe v. Wade for a long time became the litmus test of political orthodoxy to the
religious right. For years, organizations such as the Moral Majority and the Christian
Coalition distributed voter guides in evangelical churches which served as a report card on
a politician’s view on abortion, school prayer, vouchers, etc.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 143 of 385
Norma McCorvey who used ‘Jane Roe’ as a pseudonym brought this class-action lawsuit
before the Supreme Court. The defendant in the case was Dallas County, Texas district
attorney, Henry B. Wade. McCorvey, representing all pregnant women, contended that the
Texas abortion law violated the privacy rights of pregnant women. The case was heard at
the Supreme Court in Washington, D. C. Using the Ninth Amendment (which guarantees
the right to privacy) as the basis for their ruling, seven of the nine judges voted to
overturn the Texas abortion law (Chief Justice Warren Burger, Harry Blackmun, William J.
Brennan, William O. Douglas, Thurgood Marshall, Lewis Powell and Potter Stewart). The
two judges who dissented were William Rehnquist and Byron White. The arguments of the
plaintiff’s attorneys were based on the Ninth Amendment idea that abortion is a personal
decision and that a person’s right to privacy is infringed upon when abortion is
forbidden. The defense attorneys on the other hand argued that the unborn have certain
legal rights that must be protected by the state.

What made the decision particularly thorny was the fact that the Texas abortion law
targeted only those who performed the abortion and not those who sought it. Thus,
Assistant District Attorney John Tolle argued that McCorvey lacked standing to sue
because the law did not apply to her since she was seeking an abortion and not performing
it.

Tolle also requested a personal interview with the so called ‘Jane Roe’ but in an anonymous
affidavit filed by her attorneys she declined because the notoriety of the case might damage
her ability to secure a job in the future and also because her right to privacy might be
severely infringed upon.

On January 22, 1973, the Supreme Court handed down its decision. Reading from his
majority opinion, Justice Harry Blackmun reviewed the history of abortion legislation in
the United States, writing:

"The restrictive criminal abortion laws in effect in a majority of states today . . . are not of
ancient or even of common law origin."

Rather, Blackmun said, it seemed that legislators had designed these laws to protect
women from a procedure that was, in the 19th century, a risk to their health. That
objective was no longer valid, said Blackmun, since abortions were now as safe as or safer
than childbirth for women.

Blackmun then turned to a discussion of the "right to personal privacy," before coming to
the central point of his decision:

“The right of privacy, whether it is founded in the Fourteenth Amendment's concept of
personal liberty and restrictions on state action . . . or . . . in the Ninth Amendment's



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 144 of 385
reservation of rights to the people, is broad enough to encompass a woman's decision to
terminate her pregnancy.”

Discussing Texas' claim that it had the right to infringe on Roe's rights "to protect prenatal
life," Blackmun examined the U.S. Constitution to see if the Founding Fathers had intended
to include prenatal life when they used the word "person" in the document. He concluded
that nowhere in the document had he found "any possible pre-natal application." He
declared, "The word 'person' as used in the Fourteenth Amendment, does not include the
unborn."

Erosion of Moral Values in Society

The decade of the 1960’s was a period of moral transition for the United States. The
Beatles, Elvis Presley, and Woodstock glorified the use of drugs and encouraged sex
outside of marriage and rebellion against all authority. The Vietnam War galvanized the
youth against the political establishment and the slogan ‘make love, not war’ became the
clarion call of the hippies. There can be no doubt that the 1960’s were a watershed
decade. It brought into existence an entire generation of young people who openly defied
the authority of parents, teachers, preachers, the Bible and political institutions. Morality
in the United States precipitously decayed. The backlash from the religious community
was to be expected and in the course of time Protestants and Catholics joined hands to
‘moralize’ society.

It was perceived that the moral deterioration of society demanded unity of action. To use
the expression of Chuck Colson, ‘we cannot afford to be divided when the barbarians are
scaling the walls’. There was a perception, and it is real, that the political left and the
secular humanists were inimical to religion and would rather have religion cease to exist!
Growing economic turmoil, social unrest, war, drug trafficking, disrespect for authority,
erosion of family values, terrorism, and natural disasters create an angst that demands
united action in order to restore sanity to society.

So, the recent decades have seen a growing intimacy between the conservative Protestant
churches in America and the Roman Catholic papacy. Enthusiastic cooperation on social
issues such as abortion, gay marriage, school prayer, school choice vouchers, religious
displays on public property and judicial activism gave them a common agenda. Cooperation
in the election of conservative candidates gave them a common cause.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 145 of 385
Political Activism Due to the Disintegration of Morality

Journalist Cal Thomas once wrote:

“If we will not be constrained from within by the power of God, we must be constrained from
without by the power of the State acting as God’s agent.” Harper’s Magazine, March 1995, p.
30

Ralph Reed, the first president of the Christian Coalition was invited to speak at the
Catholic Campaign for America and explained the united socio-political agenda of
conservative Protestants and Catholics:

“The Catholic vote holds the key to the future and I believe that if they can unite, if Catholics
can unite with the Evangelical Christians, the Protestants who share their views on the
sanctity of innocent human life and the need for religious liberty, and school choice, and
common sense values, I believe if Catholics and Evangelicals can unite there is no person who
runs for office in any city or any state in America that can’t be elected and there is no bill
that can’t be passed in either house of Congress or any state legislative chamber anywhere
in America. It is the emerging force in the electorate today. The Pope does use the term
hierarchy of doctrine. Father Robertson said: ‘Obviously some teachings are more important
than others and there has to be an agreement on those essential points while leaving
considerable latitude on other points that are less essential to the faith.”

Author and theologian Tim LaHaye made legislative reform a necessary precondition for
revival:

“While it is true that God has already given America three national revivals in the past, we
desperately need another one today. Personally, I am not sure we can have one without
legislative reform.” Clifford Goldstein, The Saving of America, p. 47

Of course the question begs to be asked: Is revival brought about by the inward working of
the Holy Spirit or is it accomplished by legislative reform?

Richard Hogue in his book, Saints and Dirty Politics linked Christian involvement in
politics with bringing back the nation to the Lord:

“ . . . if our country survives—and I realize that’s a big IF—it will be because there is an
awakening in the lives of committed Christians across our nation who finally begin to realize
that it is not only their opportunity but also their absolute responsibility to be intricately
involved in the political process of our country and use that involvement to turn this
nation once again to the Lord.” (Quoted in Clifford Goldstein, The Saving of America, p. 53)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 146 of 385
And Ralph Reed, who was the first president of Pat Robertson’s Christian Coalition,
joined the chorus of voices clamoring for Christians to take back the country through
political involvement:

“What Christians have got to do is take back this country, one precinct at a time, one
neighborhood at a time, one state at a time. I honestly believe that in my lifetime we will see a
country once again governed by Christians.” (Quoted in Clifford Goldstein, Day of the
Dragon, p. 72)

Radical right winger Randall Terry gave a speech at Willoughby Hills, Ohio in July of 1993
where he challenged Christians:

“Our goal must be simple: We must have a Christian nation built on God’s law, on the Ten
Commandments. No apologies.” (Speech by Randall Terry at Willoughby Hills, Ohio in July of
1993)

Pat Robertson, speaking at the concluding meeting of the Second Annual Road to
Victory Conference of the Christian Coalition on September 12, 1992:

“Two thousand three hundred years ago the world was at a similar crisis as it is today, and a
man named Haman erected a gallows to kill God’s man, Mordeccai. We see that same thing
today and who knows but what you are come to the kingdom for a time such as this . . . The
enemies of religious freedom have erected a gallows for us but they will be hung on their
own gallows.

“God told me in December 1991 that He was going to bless the Christian Coalition beyond our
wildest expectations. Before the year 2000, the Christian Coalition will be the most powerful
organization in the United States. We will have over 1.7 million Christian activists in all
counties and voting precincts in America. People will be calling from Washington D. C. to ask
us what is the position of the Christian Coalition so that we will know how to vote . . .

“Reports of the demise of the Christian Right have been greatly exaggerated. We are alive,
growing and better organized than ever. Even if George Bush is not reelected this year, we’re
going to be back in 1993, and in 1994, we are going to be back in 1995 and in 1996 and 1997
and 1998 and 1999. We’re going to be back until we win it all.”

The recent major natural disasters, the San Francisco earthquake, hurricane Andrew,
hurricane Iniki are evidences that God is displeased with the wickedness of our nation and we
can expect these disasters to increase until we get our nation back to God.”

Many years before, Pat Robertson had already expressed the objectives of the Christian
right:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 147 of 385
“. . . we have together with the Protestants and the Catholics enough votes to run the
country and when the people say, ‘We’ve had enough,’ we are going to take over.”
Conservative Digest, August, 1979:

Robert Grant, president of Christian Voice, which was a branch of the Moral Majority
established by Jerry Falwell once said:

“If Christians unite we can do anything. We can pass any law or any amendment and that’s
exactly what we intend to do.” Quoted in Liberty Magazine, May/June 1980, p. 4

In a television interview, Grant stated:

“We can do anything. We can amend the Constitution. We can elect a president. We can
change or make any law in the land. And it behooves us to do it. If we have to live under the
law, as well, we should live under moral and Godly Law.” (20/20 program the week of the
Democratic National Convention in 1980)

What many conservative religious leaders want today is exactly what the religious leaders
wanted during the Colonial period. They believe that the political system united with the
religious leaders can preserve the moral fiber of the nation. But history proves that the
opposite is true. Ellen White warned:

“The regulation adopted by the early colonists, of permitting only members of the church to
vote or to hold office in the civil government, led to most pernicious results. This measure
had been accepted as a means of preserving the purity of the state, but it resulted in the
corruption of the church. A profession of religion being the condition of suffrage and office
holding, many, actuated solely by motives of worldly policy, united with the church without a
change of heart. Thus the churches came to consist, to a considerable extent, of unconverted
persons; and even in the ministry were those who not only held errors of doctrine, but who
were ignorant of the renewing power of the Holy Spirit. Thus again was demonstrated the
evil results, so often witnessed in the history of the church from the days of Constantine to the
present, of attempting to build up the church by the aid of the state, of appealing to the
secular power in support of the gospel of Him who declared: "My kingdom is not of this
world" John 18:36. The union of the church with the state, be the degree never so slight,
while it may appear to bring the world nearer to the church, does in reality but bring the
church nearer to the world.” GC, p. 297

The humanist philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche expressed it this way: “Be careful when
you fight the dragon lest you become a dragon.” By wanting to fight against the dragon of
the left wing, or secular humanism, the Christian right will speak like the dragon that
they wish to overcome. Presently it appears that the moral issues are on the backburner




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 148 of 385
but when things get really bad, Catholics and Protestants will join forces to bring America
‘back to God’.

Judge Roy Moore

Judge Roy Moore was a state judge who campaigned in the year 2000 to become the Chief
Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court. He campaigned as the ‘Ten Commandments
Judge’ and promised that if elected he would display the Ten Commandments in the state
court building. With the support of the religious right, he won in a landslide.
Alabama is notorious for being a bastion of the religious right, a stronghold of the so-
called Bible belt. Bible belt Protestants have traditionally taught that the Ten
Commandments were nailed to the cross and that we are not under law but under grace.
They have been strong opponents of Seventh-day Adventists who have sought to uphold
the perpetuity of God’s moral law. And so it is quite puzzling that they would want to post
the Ten Commandments in America’s courtrooms when they believe that the law was
nailed to the cross!! Yet the religious right fought tooth and nail in support of Judge Moore’s
Ten Commandment monument.

In fact the monument weighed a whopping 5,300 pounds. It was sneaked into the state
building after working hours on July 31, 2001 without informing any of the other justices
on the court. Several religious right supporters financed the building of the monument.

Americans United for the Separation of Church and State immediately sued Judge Moore,
along with the American Civil Liberties Union and the Southern Poverty Legal Center.
In the trial that ensued, Judge Moore had to testify before United States District Court
Judge Myron Thompson. During the trial, Moore boldly declared that Buddhism is not a
religion that is protected by the First Amendment. In his legal opinion, Justice Thompson
pointed out that Judge Moore’s position almost amounted to the establishment of a
theocracy. Justice Thompson stated:

“His fundamental, if not sole, purpose in displaying the monument was non-secular; and the
monument’s primary effect advances religion.”

Not surprisingly, a good share of Justice Moore’s legal expenses were raised by D. James
Kennedy, who before his death was a staunch opponent of the separation of church and
state and by his own admission would have liked the United States to return to the
theocratic style of government that existed in Calvin’s Geneva or in Colonial America.
One is reminded that Servetus was burned at the stake for heresy under Calvin’s system.

At the conclusion of the trial, Judge Moore was given 30 days to remove the monument or
face the threat of removal from office. Judge Moore refused to budge and was removed
from office. In a rather long article, CNN reported:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 149 of 385
“On November 13, 2003, Alabama's Court of the Judiciary unanimously removed Moore
from his post as Chief Justice.

Alabama's judicial ethics panel removed Chief Justice Roy Moore from office Thursday for
defying a federal judge's order to move a Ten Commandments monument from the state
Supreme Court building.

The nine-member Court of the Judiciary issued its unanimous decision after a one-day
trial Wednesday.

The panel, which includes judges, lawyers and non-lawyers, could have reprimanded
Moore, continued his suspension or cleared him.

The ethics panel said Moore put himself above the law by "willfully and publicly" flouting
the order to remove the 2.6-ton monument from the state judicial building's rotunda in
August.

U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson ruled the granite carving was an unconstitutional
endorsement of religion. Moore refused to obey the order but was overruled by his eight
colleagues on the state Supreme Court. On November 3, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to
hear Moore's appeal of Thompson's ruling.

Moore ‘showed no signs of contrition for his actions,’ the Court of the Judiciary found.

Moore's critics said they were not yet satisfied.

Richard Cohen, a lawyer for the Southern Poverty Law Center—one of the groups that sued
Moore over the monument—said the organization would seek to have Moore disbarred.

After the ruling, Moore said he was not surprised by the decision and that he was being
removed from office because he ‘acknowledged God.’

Moore read comments by Alabama Attorney General Bill Pryor in 1997 that defended his
display of the Ten Commandments in his courtroom when he was a state circuit court
judge.

Pryor filed the ethics charges after Moore refused to remove the monument.

‘God has chosen this time and this place so we can save our country and save our courts for
our children,’ Moore said.

President Bush has nominated Pryor to a seat on the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
Senate Democrats are trying to block the nomination by filibuster.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 150 of 385
Pryor, a Republican, has said he believes the Ten Commandments display was
constitutional, but he said Thursday federal court orders must be obeyed.

‘At the end of the day, when the courts resolve those controversies, we respect their
decision,’ he said. ‘That does not mean that we always agree with their decision.’

On Wednesday, prosecutors showed the ethics panel documents and videotapes they said
proved Moore defied a lawful court order in violation of his oath of office. They rested their
case after 25 minutes.”

Alabama Christian Coalition president, John Giles said that he believed that there would be
a backlash against the ruling in Alabama.

‘I am afraid the judge’s order putting a 30-day limit on the removal of the monument will
lead to an uprising of citizens protesting removal of that monument.’

Because of this decision conservative Protestants and Catholics have accused the
government of being inimical to religion in general and to the Ten Commandments in
particular. This has provided fuel to the fire of evangelicals who have accused the Federal
Judiciary of being activist and secular humanist.

Thomas Jefferson once warned that threats to freedom come, not when the government
acts against its constituents, but when ‘a government is a mere instrument of the major
number of constituents.’

Vouchers, Charitable Choice and Religious Displays

In recent years the failure of the public education system has led Protestants and Catholics
to lobby together for school vouchers that will allow parents to send their children to
sectarian schools at government expense. Of course the Roman Catholic Church stands
to benefit most from this arrangement because they have the largest parochial school
system in the country.

Protestants and Catholics have also made great strides in getting the government to
support their charitable organizations. George W. Bush signed an executive order
authorizing the federal government to give money to private and sectarian charities. Is this
not the case of Caesar rendering to God, that which is Caesar’s? Would we feel
comfortable if the government requested churches to pay a portion of their tithes as taxes
in order to reduce the Federal budget deficit? Would this not be rendering unto Caesar that
which is God’s?

Another area of debate that has joined Protestants and Catholics in a common camp is the
issue of religious displays on government property. For example, when government




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 151 of 385
magistrates refuse to put up nativity scenes on public property, the Christian right has
cried foul, claiming that this is discriminatory against Christianity.

The Marriage Debate

The issue of marriage has also helped fuse the relationship between Protestants and
Catholics. The papacy (and rightly so!) has been a staunch defender of conventional
marriage as the union between a man and a woman. Conservative Protestants agree. The
Manhattan Declaration, which was signed by conservative Protestants and Catholics, puts
the pressure on the political leaders of the United States to defend the sanctity of
heterosexual marriage. The legalization of gay marriage by the courts and legislatures in
several states and on a federal level has led Christian conservatives to feel like the
government has become morally lax.

Ironically, the political left in the United States is in favor of gay marriage that is clearly
contradictory to the institution of marriage that was established by God at Creation. On
the other hand, conservative Catholics and Protestants are in favor of Sunday sacredness
that is clearly contradictory to the creation story where God made the seventh-day
Sabbath holy. So both the left and the right are attempting to change creation institutions. It
is crass hypocrisy to defend the sanctity of marriage on the basis of creation and not to
sustain the equal sanctity of the Sabbath that was created at the same time and in the
same place!


Theological Ecumenism

The word ‘ecumenism’ means ‘to dwell in the same house’. After Vatican II Protestant and
Roman Catholic scholars began meeting on a regular basis to discuss theological issues. In
these contacts friendships were formed and a consensus was sought on the ‘basics’ of the
Christian faith. Three documents signed by prominent Protestant and Catholic leaders in
recent years illustrate how the two sides have drawn closer and closer together. The first
was Evangelicals and Catholics Together, the second was the Joint Declaration on
Righteousness by Faith and the third was the Manhattan Declaration.

Evangelicals and Catholics Together

The twenty-five page document, Evangelicals and Catholics Together: The Christian
Mission in the Third Millennium was signed on March 29, 1994 by 39 of the most
influential evangelicals and Catholics in the United States at the time, including Richard
Neehaus (a prominent clergyman who converted from the Lutheran to the Catholic
Church), Charles Colson (of Watergate and prison ministries fame), Pat Robertson
(founder of the Christian Broadcasting Network), the late John Cardinal O’Connor (who


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 152 of 385
was in charge of the archdiocese of New York) as well as other influential bishops,
archbishops and scholars. The document discouraged Protestants and Catholics from
proselytizing members from one another’s churches and encouraged Protestants and
Catholics to work together in the evangelization of the world.

Pat Robertson’s explained the reason why he signed the document:

“The moral crisis facing society today and the obvious social breakdown mandates a closer
cooperation between people of faith. The time has come where we must lay aside minor
points of doctrinal differences and focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. . . I’m lending my support
because I believe it’s imperative that we work to bring the body of Christ together.”
Christian American, May/June, 1994

USA Today, March 30, 1994 had this to say about Evangelicals and Catholics Together:

“The leaders in a statement [Evangelicals and Catholics Together] are urging the nation’s
fifty-two million Catholics and thirteen million evangelicals to no longer hold each other at
theological arms length and stop aggressive proselytizing of each others’ flocks, in short, to
turn their theological swords into a recognition of a common faith.”

One of the signers of this document was Keith Fournier who wrote a book titled, House
United. This book has incredible ecumenical implications. Notice his comment on page
336:

“Catholics, Protestants and Orthodox can come together, must come together, and are
coming together. The wall of separation is cracking, portions of the wall are beginning to
fall away. Christians are waking up and starting to see each other as Family.”

Kenneth Kantzer, in an article in Christianity Today, “Church on the Move,” November 7,
1986, p. 16 remarked:

“Finally we [Catholics and Evangelicals] can work together on those political and social
issues where we are in such strong agreement. Our united effort in these areas will do much
to influence the world to the good . . . In spite of basic differences, we can use our common
Judeo-Christian value system to forge moral leadership that will advance the cause of justice
and peace through a stable society in our nation and around the world.”

Joint Declaration on Righteousness by Faith

On October 31, 1999 after 33 years of deliberation and negotiation (which began right
after Vatican II) Roman Catholic and Lutheran leaders (who represented 61.5 million
Lutherans worldwide) signed the Joint Declaration on Righteousness by Faith in which
they concluded that Martin Luther’s rift with Rome was actually due to a misunderstanding



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 153 of 385
and was a battle over semantics (definition of words). The irony of the whole matter is
that the document was signed exactly 482 years to the day after Martin Luther nailed his
95 Theses to the cathedral door in Wittenberg.

The Manhattan Declaration

More recently thousands of religious leaders, both Protestant and Roman Catholic signed
the Manhattan Declaration. I have written extensively on the importance of this
document in a Secrets Unsealed Newsletter a portion of which I will quote here:

“Perhaps some of you have heard of the Manhattan Declaration. This document was drafted
on October 20, 2009 and released on November 20 by some very influential Roman
Catholic, Protestant, Evangelical and Orthodox religious leaders in the United States and
the world. Among those who have signed the Declaration are bishops and archbishops,
university presidents, theological seminary presidents, seminary teachers, chancellors,
leaders of various family life organizations, senior pastors of influential mega and giga
churches, lawyers and world renowned Christian authors, editors and religious
broadcasters.

To date there are over one half million signatories from every religious stripe—Roman
Catholic, Episcopalian, Anglican, Orthodox, Methodist, United Methodist, Baptist,
Presbyterian, Reformed, Salvation Army, Christian, Reformed Episcopal, Church of God in
Christ, Congregational, Pentecostal, Church of Christ, Evangelical Free, Assembly of God,
Church of the Brethren, Lutheran—a truly ecumenical group! In fact the drafters of the
Declaration have explicitly stated: ‘we act together’ and we have ‘united at this hour’ to
‘reaffirm fundamental truths.’ In another place the Declaration states:

“We are Christians who have joined together across historic lines of ecclesial differences to
affirm our right—and, more importantly, to embrace our obligation—to speak and act in
defense of these truths.”

As I see it, this ecumenical spirit is one of the most problematic aspects of the Manhattan
Declaration.

Ut Unum Sint

To these three documents must be added John Paul’s encyclical, Ut Unum Sint (‘that they all
may be one’) where He envisions the day when Protestants and Catholics can gather
together under the same roof to celebrate the Eucharist or Mass. This is a significant call
because, according to Roman Catholic theology, only a properly ordained priest by
apostolic succession has the power to transubstantiate the bread and the wine into the
body and blood of Jesus. This must mean that if and when such an ecumenical Mass is



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 154 of 385
celebrated, a Roman Catholic priest must officiate because only he can transubstantiate
the bread and wine.

Together on Common Points

It is an undeniable fact that Roman Catholic and Protestant theologians have drawn ever
closer together on what they consider to be the ‘bare minimums’ of the Christian faith.

Chuck Colson in the introduction to Roman Catholic Keith Fournier’s book, Evangelical
Catholics (notice that Fournier claims to be both Evangelical and Catholic), makes several
remarkable statements:

“It’s high time that all of us who are Christians come together regardless of the differences
of our confessions and our traditions and make common cause to bring Christian values to
bear in our society. When the barbarians are scaling the walls, there is no time for petty
quarreling in the camp.” p. 1

“But at root, those who are called of God, whether Catholic or Protestant, are part of the same
Body. What they share is a belief in the basics: the virgin birth, the deity of Christ, His bodily
resurrection, His imminent return, and the authority of His infallible Word. They also share
the same mission: presenting Christ as Savior and Lord to a needy world” p. vi.

“I pray that this [Fournier’s] book will be read by Catholics and Protestant alike, that it will be
a bridge across many of the historic divisions in the church that have weakened our stand in
today’s culture” p. vi.

Ralph Reed who was the first president of Pat Robertson’s Christian Coalition and now
lobbies for Christian causes in Congress said the following in a speech that he delivered to
the Catholic Campaign for America:

“The truth is, you and I are uniting . . . We are coming together because whatever
theological differences there are, there is far more that unites us and brings us together
than divides us and separates us . . . The good news is the chasm is being bridged and that
those walls are crumbling . . . The truth my friends is this. Catholicism never has been, is
not today, and never will be a threat to American democracy. It was and remains the
most colorful and the most vibrant thread running through the tapestry of American
democracy.”

One’s mouth drops wide open when one hears Reed unashamedly and recklessly affirm:

“Cardinal Gibbons said this: he said, No constitution is more in harmony with Catholic
principles than the American constitution and no religion is more in accord with that
constitution than the Catholic religion.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 155 of 385
Here Ralph Reed is obviously suffering from historical amnesia and Gibbons is knowingly
prevaricating.

Reed continued his speech:

“I want you to know that as Evangelicals we stand shoulder to shoulder with you in insuring
that never again will bigotry be directed against Catholics and their religion be used to try
and silence them and drive them from the public square.

“I think you know that we have recently launched a division of the Christian Coalition called
the Catholic Alliance which is designed to formalize and continue to build bridges in our
partnership with Roman Catholics. The Catholic Alliance, like the Catholic Campaign, will be a
lay movement.”

Ellen White warned that Christian conservatives would do exactly as Reed suggested:

“When the leading churches of the United States, uniting upon such points of doctrine as
are held in common, shall influence the state to enforce their decrees and to sustain their
institutions, then Protestant America will have formed an image to the Roman hierarchy, and
the infliction of civil penalties upon dissenters will inevitably result.” GC, p. 445.

Ralph Reed as reported in The Amarillo Sunday News Globe, December 10, 1995 referred to
divisions as a ‘luxury’ that Christians can no longer live with:

“We can no longer afford to be divided. It is a luxury that is no longer ours. The left wants you
and I to be divided. Nothing frightens them more than Christians shattering the barriers of
denomination.”

He further affirmed:

“Obviously, some teachings are more important than others, and there has to be an
agreement on those essential points, while leaving considerable latitude on other points
that are less essential to the faith.” Ralph Reed, Our Sunday Visitor, January 14, 1996.

Gary North, one of the leaders of the religious right once stated:

“We must use the doctrine of religious liberty to gain independence for Christian schools until
we train up a generation of people who know that there is no religious neutrality . . . Then
they will get busy in constructing a Bible-based social, political and religious order which
finally denies the religious liberty of the enemies of God.” Gary North quoted in The Religious
Right: The Assault on Tolerance and Pluralism in America, pp. 5, 6




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 156 of 385
Ellen White’s prediction in 1888 appeared totally absurd but is now quite believable:

“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for His people, that they might worship
Him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land over which for long years the
shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land which God has favored by making it the
depository of the pure religion of Christ--when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure
the principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with
God's law--it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants will
throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a national act
enforcing the false sabbath, they will give life and vigor to the corrupt faith of Rome,
reviving her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to work in
mighty power for the vindication of His truth.” Maranatha, p. 179.

W. A. Criswell, who for many years was the senior pastor of the First Baptist Church in
Dallas, one of the largest Baptist churches in the United States, had this to say about the
ecumenical union of Protestants and Catholics:

“I don’t know anyone more dedicated to the great fundamental doctrines of Christianity than
the Catholics.” W. A. Criswell, former president of the Southern Baptist Convention. Quoted in,
Dave Hunt, A Woman Rides the Beast, p. 388.

And what does Billy Graham (who for over seven decades was the most admired pastor in
the United States and the dean of all Protestant evangelists) have to say about Roman
Catholicism?

“I’ve found that my beliefs are essentially the same as those of orthodox Roman Catholics.”
Billy Graham, quoted in Dave Hunt, A Woman Rides the Beast, p. 388.

In 1981 Billy Graham hailed the pope as “the greatest moral leader of the world and the
world’s greatest evangelist.” Quoted in Michael de Semlyen, All Roads Lead to Rome? p. 170

US News and World Report quoted Graham as saying:

“World travel and getting to know the clergy of all denominations has helped mold me into an
ecumenical being. We’re separated by theology and, in some instances by culture and race,
but all of that means nothing to me anymore.” US News and World Report, December 19,
1988.

On the Good Morning America program, Billy Graham stated on August 12, 1993:

“I admire the Pope. We address the same moral issues.”

When the Pope visited Salt Lake City, Larry King interviewed Billy Graham On January 21,
1998 on his program Larry King Live. Notice how the dialogue unfolded:


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 157 of 385
King: “Do you feel comfortable with Salt Lake City? Do you feel comfortable with the
Vatican?”

Graham: “Oh, I’m very comfortable with the Vatican. I’ve been to see the Pope several times,
and, in fact, the day that he was inaugurated, made Pope, I was preaching in his Cathedral in
Krakow. I was his guest.”

King: “You were preaching in his church the day he was made Pope?”

Graham: “That is correct, in Krakow.” (Graham chuckled)

King: “You must have been shocked.”

Graham: “Of course I was. There was shouting on the streets, you know, the next day: ‘Polish
Pope, Polish Pope.’”

King: “Do you like this Pope?”

Graham: “I like him very much. He’s very conservative . . . He and I agree on almost
everything.”

In the Introduction to the book by Keith Fournier, Evangelical Catholics, Charles Colson of
Watergate fame and who spearheads Prison Ministries International stated:

“It’s high time that all of us who are Christians come together regardless of the differences
of our confessions and our traditions and make common cause to bring Christian values to
bear in our society. When the barbarians are scaling the walls, there is no time for petty
quarreling in the camp.”

In the ecumenical meeting that was held at St. Joseph’s Church in Manhattan, New York
on Friday, April 18, 2008 we can see an example of this growing intimacy between
Protestants and the papacy. No less than 250 leaders from the great mainline Protestant
denominations and other Christian organizations in the United States participated
including United Methodists, Evangelical Lutherans, Lutheran Church Missouri Synod, the
National Association of Evangelicals, Presbyterians, the Reformed church, the National
Baptist Convention, various Pentecostal groups, Greek Orthodox, Armenian and
Episcopalian. Even the Mormons were represented! Fifteen of these leaders were chosen
to personally shake the Pope’s hand.
Benedict XVI stood at the front of the church in his white papal robe and cassock as each
of these fifteen representatives came forward to cordially shake his hand; some of them
inclining their head to him and all of them uttering kind words. This, in spite of the fact
that Benedict has explicitly said that Protestant churches are not true Christian




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 158 of 385
Churches. So to speak, Martin Luther must have been rolling over in his grave at such a
betrayal of the Protestant Reformation that cost so much sweat, blood and tears!

Tony Palmer and the Pope

Probably most have heard of Tony Palmer. Who was he and what motivated him? He was
an Anglican clergyman of the Celtic Tradition who belonged to a church that is seriously
fragmented with offshoots everywhere. For this reason he yearned for a unity of
Christians driven by a common subjective experience.

In February of 2014 Palmer was invited to address a charismatic leader’s convention
organized by Pentecostal mega-pastor Kenneth Copland. Palmer stated that God had
brought him to Kenneth Copland’s leaders’ convention (on February 25, 2014) ‘in the
spirit of Elijah’ to bring the hearts of the sons to the fathers and the fathers to the sons’—
that is to say, to unite all Christians

Palmer lamented that after Martin Luther’s Reformation, Protestantism has split into
33,000 denominations and sects. This led him to announce that ‘diversity is divine’ and
division is ‘diabolic’. He then went on to affirm that God has given charismatics the glory
so that they may be one. Downplaying the importance of doctrine, he stated:

“It is the glory that glues us together, not the doctrine. It’s the glory. If you accept that the
glory of God is living in me and the presence of God is in you, that’s all we need because God
will sort out all our doctrine later upstairs . . . Christian unity is the basis of our credibility
because Jesus said that until we are one the world will not believe.”

In 1999 Lutherans and Catholics signed a joint declaration on righteousness by faith
where they stated that they were on the same page on the doctrine of righteousness by
faith. Five years later the Methodists signed the declaration as well. This led Palmer to
confidently state that Luther’s protest is over. In his own words:
“Brothers and sisters, Luther’s protest is over. Is yours?”
After lamenting that to date no evangelical church has signed the agreement Palmer said:
“. . . this must be fixed. . . The protest has been over for 15 years. If there is no longer any
protest, how can there be a protestant church? Maybe now we are all Catholics again.”
Palmer had a close friendship with Pope Francis I and before the convention he visited the
Pope in the Vatican and taped a video message on his cell phone to deliver to the
hundreds of leaders gathered at the convention. The Pope passionately pleaded for the
visible unity of all Christians.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 159 of 385
He said:
“I am yearning that this separation comes to an end and gives us communion. I am yearning
for that embrace.”
At the end of his message the Pope pleaded with the hundreds of charismatic leaders:
‘Please pray for me, I need your prayers. And I will pray for you, but I need your prayers. And
let’s pray to the Lord that He unites us all. Come on, we are brothers. Let’s give each other a
spiritual hug and let God complete the work that He has begun. And this is a miracle; the
miracle of unity has begun. I ask you to bless me; I bless you. From brother to brother I
embrace you.”
After the Pope delivered his message, the delegates stood, clapped, cheered and raised
their hands as Kenneth Copland moved to the stage repeating the word: “Glory, glory,
glory!”
When he arrived on stage Copland affirmed, “We do not know how to pray for him [the Pope]
as we ought” so he uttered a prayer in tongues.
After his prayer, Copland invited Palmer come on stage with his cell phone and Copland
recorded a message for Palmer to take back to the Pope:
“These leaders represent literally tens of thousands that love you, that believe that God is
with you, and in answer to your request we have just prayed for you and with you, and we did
so in the spirit. We do bless you; we receive your blessing. It is very, very important to us.
And we bless you with all of our hearts, we bless you with all of our souls, we bless you will all
of our might, and we thank you sir, we thank God for you, and so, all of us declare together:
“Be blessed.”

James Robison
After Copland’s convention, several influential Protestant leaders were invited by the Pope
to visit the Vatican. One of these leaders was James Robison. Upon meeting the Pope,
Robison looked him in the eye and said:
“Pope Francis, let me just say to you that I see Jesus in you; and in Christ we are brothers, we
are family. Thank you for speaking the language of love that all may come to know him and
love him and love one another.”
And then Robison gave the Pope the first high five in papal history!
May 5, 2014 Tony Palmer was invited to James Robison’s program ‘Life Today’ and stated:
“Diversity is divine; it is division that is diabolic. . . Jesus’ theology is that if God is in you and
you are in God and God is in me and I am in God, we are one together in God . . . Our sin is that
we don’t make our unity visible because we allow our diversities to divide us and if we



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 160 of 385
elevate anything to divide us we are elevating it above the cross. So, whether it is a doctrine
or a dogma or an expression, if you use that to divide our unity you have elevated that
doctrine or whatever it may be above the cross. Now we are not saying ‘put doctrine aside,
certainly not!’ Pope Francis recognizes only two fundamental doctrines—love for God and
love for your neighbor, end of doctrine!”

Joel Osteen
Mega-church pastor Joel Osteen was also the Pope’s guest at the Vatican. After his visit,
Osteen exclaimed: “I just felt very honored and very humbled.” (television station Click 2
Houston). He further stated:
“It was amazing. And even to go back into that part of the Vatican—there’s so much history
there, the place that they took us through. You feel that deep respect and reverence for
God.”
The Lakewood leader also met with other Vatican staff during his visit, including Cardinal
Pietro Parolli, Secretary of State for the Vatican, and had dinner with an unspecified staff
member.
Osteen attended mass in St. Peter’s Square on Wednesday prior to the meeting in the
midst of a crowd of 100,000 people. Osteen reminisced:
“Afterward, [the Pope] spent an hour and a half going through the crowd with the Pope
mobile, greeting people,” he recalled to the Houston Chronicle. It was very heartwarming to
see him caring for people. . . I love the fact that’s he’s made the Church more inclusive . . .
Not trying to make it smaller, but to try to make it larger—to take everybody in. So, that just
resonates with me.”
Rick Warren
Rick Warren, the author of the blockbuster best sellers, The Purpose Driven Church and The
Purpose Driven Life and who has been described as the successor of Billy Graham as the
most influential evangelical in the world has also made several trips to the Vatican.
Recently Warren has made some amazing statements about Pope Francis I referring to him
as the ‘holy father’ and calling him ‘our Pope’. He stated in November of 2014 that Catholics
and Protestants ‘have far more in common than what divides us.’ He went on to say:
“They [Catholics and Protestants] would all say: ‘We believe in the Trinity; we believe in the
Bible; we believe in the resurrection; we believe in salvation through Jesus Christ. These are
the big issues.”
Warren then admonished Protestants:
“Sometimes Protestants think that Catholics worship Mary like she’s another god, but that’s
not exactly Catholic doctrine. People say: ‘What are the saints all about? Why are you
praying to the saints? And when you understand what they mean by what they are saying,
there’s a whole lot more commonality [that we have with Roman Catholics] . . . There’s still
real differences—no doubt about that, but the most important thing is, if you love Jesus, we’re



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 161 of 385
on the same team. . . When it comes to the family, we are co-workers in the field in this for
the protection of the sanctity of life, the sanctify of sex and the sanctity of marriage. So, there’s
a great commonality and there’s no division on any of those three.”

Ulf Eckman
Title of the online article in Christianity Today (posted on March 10, 2014):
“Sweden’s Pentecostal Mega-pastor Converts to Catholicism”
The subtitle read:
“He stuns his Word of Life mega-church in Sunday sermon: He’s crossing the Tiber.”
“Just who is Ulf Eckman? He founded the 3,300-member mega-church in one of Sweden’s
largest cities. He operated the largest Bible school in Scandinavia. It has educated more than
9,500 students in the period of its existence. On Sunday, March 9, he announced to his
stunned congregation that he was leaving his congregation to join the Roman Catholic
Church.”
What reason did he give?
“I have come to realize that the movement I, for the last 30 years have represented, despite
some successes and much good that has occurred on various mission fields, is part of the
ongoing Protestant fragmentation of Christendom”.
He stated that he would now dedicate his time to pursue unity among Christian
movements and denominations.
He stated that as he became acquainted with Roman Catholics he grew closer and
closer to them. For a decade a transformation was taking place. In his own words:

“It really challenged our protestant prejudices, and we realized that we in many cases did
not have any basis for our criticism of them.” “We needed to know the Catholic faith better.
This led us to realize that it was actually Jesus Christ who led us to unite with the Catholic
Church.”

He also said:

“We have seen a great love for Jesus and a sound theology founded on the Bible and classic
dogma [in other words, ‘tradition’]. We have experienced the richness of sacramental life.
We have seen the logic in having a solid structure for priesthood that keeps the faith of the
church and passes it on from one generation to the next. We have met an ethical and moral
strength and consistency that dare to face up to the general opinion [social factors], and a
kindness towards the poor and weak. And, last but not least, we have come in contact with
representatives for millions of charismatic Catholics and we have seen their living faith.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 162 of 385
Dave Hunt is one of the few evangelicals that have foreseen the dangers of the Protestant-
Roman Catholic love affair:

“This indicates that not only Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy will be united, but
that Protestants will join together with them, along with all of the world’s religions,
including even the Muslims, to form one new world religion.” A Woman Rides the Beast, p. 39

Ellen White sounded an alarm similar to Dave Hunt’s:

“Protestants have tampered with and patronized popery; they have made compromises
and concessions which papists themselves are surprised to see and fail to understand. Men
are closing their eyes to the real character of Romanism and the dangers to be apprehended
from her supremacy. The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this most
dangerous foe to civil and religious liberty.” GC, p. 566

Ellen White on Uniting on Common Points of Doctrine

“When the leading churches of the United States, uniting upon such points of doctrine as
are held by them in common, shall influence the state to enforce their decrees and to sustain
their institutions, then Protestant America will have formed an image of the Roman
hierarchy, and the infliction of civil penalties [the state using the sword] upon dissenters
will inevitably result.” GC, p. 445
“The wide diversity of belief in the Protestant churches is regarded by many as decisive
proof that no effort to secure a forced uniformity can ever be made. But there has been for
years, in churches of the Protestant faith, a strong and growing sentiment in favor of a union
based upon common points of doctrine. To secure such a union, the discussion of subjects
upon which all were not agreed--however important they might be from a Bible standpoint--
must necessarily be waived.” GC, p. 444
“The Protestant churches are in great darkness, or they would discern the signs of the times.
The Roman Church is far-reaching in her plans and modes of operation. She is employing
every device to extend her influence and increase her power in preparation for a fierce and
determined conflict to regain control of the world, to re-establish persecution, and to undo
all that Protestantism has done.” GC, pp. 565, 566
“Rome is aiming to re-establish her power, to recover her lost supremacy. Let the principle
once be established in the United States that the church may employ or control the power
of the state; that religious observances may be enforced by secular laws; in short, that the
authority of church and state is to dominate the conscience and the triumph of Rome in
this country is assured.” GC, p. 581




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 163 of 385
“The people of the United States have been a favored people; but when they restrict religious
liberty, surrender Protestantism, and give countenance to popery, the measure of their
guilt will be full, and "national apostasy" will be registered in the books of heaven. The result
of this apostasy will be national ruin.” Maranatha, p. 216

Attack on the Wall

As we have seen, the Founding Fathers built a tall wall of separation between church and
state. In order for the Papacy to gain the ascendancy again, this wall must come tumbling
down. The wall was built in 1787 when the Constitution was ratified and in 1791 when the
first Ten Amendments to the Constitution were adopted. As we have already studied, the
two horns like a lamb are ingrained in the First Amendment:

“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof.”

As long as the government of the United States upholds the First Amendment the papacy
cannot ascend to power once again. Jesuit priest, Malachi Martin stated as much when he
wrote that “two hundred years of inactivity have been imposed upon the papacy by the major
secular powers of the world.” The Keys of this Blood, p. 22

Yet Ellen White has made it clear that the restraint by the secular power will be removed:

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments [the First Amendment prevents
the government from legislating in matters of religion] be removed and Rome be reinstated
in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and persecution.
GC, p. 564

As we have previously seen, nine years after the First Amendment was adopted, Thomas
Jefferson wrote a letter to the Danbury Baptist Association in 1802 where he explained
his understanding of the first two clauses of the First Amendment by using the metaphor
of the wall that he most likely borrowed from Roger Williams:

“Believing with you [the Danbury Baptists] that religion is a matter which lies solely
between Man and his God, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship,
that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate
with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their
legislature should "make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," thus building a wall of separation between Church and State.”

Yet right wing religious leaders today wish to tear down the wall of separation between
church and state. They think they have a better understanding of the First Amendment
than Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 164 of 385
Keith Fournier, who was President of the American Center for Law and Justice, the legal
arm of Pat Robertson’s organization once said:

“Yet there is a wall which has been mistakenly erected in our own beloved country. Its
impact on religious freedom has perhaps had an even more devastating effect [than the Berlin
Wall], it is the so called wall of separation of church and state.”

Pat Robertson himself wrote:

“They [liberals and secular humanists] have kept us in submission because they have talked
about separation of church and state. There is no such thing in the Constitution. It’s a lie
of the left, and we’re not going to take it anymore.” (Anti-Defamation League, The Religious
Right: The Assault on Tolerance and Pluralism in America, p. 4)

Jerry Falwell, long time senior pastor of the Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg,
Virginia once stated:

“Separation of Church and State has long been the battle cry of civil libertarians wishing to
purge our glorious Christian heritage from our nation’s history. Of course, the term never
once appears in our Constitution and is a modern fabrication of discrimination.” Quoted
in Church and State, June 2006, p. 14

The late D. James Kennedy creator of Evangelism Explosion and longtime senior pastor of
Coral Ridge Presbyterian church spoke of the wall of separation as diabolical:

“If we are committed and involved in taking back the nation for Christian values . . . there is no
doubt we can witness the dismantling of not just the Berlin wall but the even more
diabolical ‘wall of separation’ that has led to secularization, immorality, and corruption in
our country.” (Quoted in “They Said It! Religious Right Leaders in Their Own Words.”

W. A. Criswell, who for years was the senior pastor of the First Baptist Church in Dallas
and is also the former president of the National Baptist Convention once boldly affirmed:

“I believe that this notion of the separation of church and state was the figment of some
infidel’s imagination.” The Saving of America p. 59

Former Arizona state senator John B. Conlan several years ago argued, as do many
Protestants and Catholics that:

“The separation of church and state is a false issue. It is a slogan created by the secular
humanists that sounds legal but in fact is a sham. It does not appear anywhere in the
constitution, and it is not a concept that our Founding Fathers believed . . . ‘Separation of
church and state’ . . . is simply a line of propaganda created by modern humanists to



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 165 of 385
intimidate Christians and make us believe that we are second-class citizens.” The Saving of
America, p. 59

Keith Fournier, on September 10-12, 1992 in Washington, D. C. at the Second Annual
Road to Victory Briefing Conference of the Christian Coalition stated:

“The wall of separation between church and state that was erected by secular humanists
and other enemies of religious freedom has to come down. That wall is more of a threat to
society than the Berlin Wall ever was. Those opposing our views are the new Fascists.”

David S. Nelson who was the director of Pat Robertson’s Christian Coalition in
Colorado stated:

“The separation of church and state is (1) not a teaching of the founding fathers; (2) not an
historical teaching; (3) not a teaching of law (except in recent years);(4) not a Biblical
teaching. In summary, there should be absolutely no ‘separation of church and state in
America.” Undated flyer in 1992

Reinterpreting the Intent of the First Amendment

The 1994 agenda of the Republican Party in Congress was expressed in the book, Contract
with the American Family, pp. 4, 5:

“The founding Fathers intended the establishment clause to insure that America’s political
institutions would never be used to benefit one religion at the expense of another.”

“They [Europeans] believed that the European system of officially sanctioned ‘state religions’
benefited neither the state nor the religion involved. Indeed, it was from such systems that the
Pilgrims and Puritans fled. This is what is rightly meant by the phrase, ‘separation of church
and state.’

The Contract with the American Family, p. 1, refers to this when it stated:

“We have witnessed the steady erosion of the time honored rights of religious Americans.
The time has now come to amend the Constitution to restore freedom of speech for
America’s people of faith.”

Tim LaHaye is quoted in Time September 2, 1985 as saying that 25% of federal jobs
should go to Christian conservatives. He also said:

“No humanist is qualified to hold any governmental office.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 166 of 385
This flies in the face of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution where we are
clearly told that there can be no religious test to occupy any office of trust in these United
States.

Notice what Ralph Reed says in his book, Politically Incorrect, p. 16

“The future of American politics lies in the growing strength of Evangelicals and their Roman
Catholic allies. If these two core constituencies—evangelicals comprising the swing vote in
the south, Catholics holding sway in the north—can cooperate on issues and support like
minded candidates they can determine the outcome of almost any election in the nation.
Nasty nativism and dark distrust about Popery and foreign influence have been swept into the
ash heap of history. John F. Kennedy’s election in 1960 buried the Catholic bogeyman
forever. No longer burdened by the past, Roman Catholics, Evangelicals, Greek Orthodox and
many religious conservatives from the mainline denominations are forging a new alliance
that promises to be among the most powerful and important in the modern political era.”

The Makeup of the Supreme Court

William Rehnquist, the late Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court once said:

“The wall of separation between church and state is a metaphor based on bad history; a
metaphor which has proved useless as a guide to judging; it should be frankly and explicitly
abandoned” The Saving of America, p.

Presently six of the nine justices on the Supreme Court, including the Chief Justice, are
Roman Catholics. This does not bode well for religious liberty in the United States.

Immigration from Latin America

As is well known, immigration from Latin America, both legal and illegal, has exploded in
the last few decades. It is estimated that some 13 million illegal immigrants presently live
in the United States, most of coming into the United States from the southern border.
Irrespective of what one thinks about the issue of immigration, this influx of people has
given the Seventh-day Adventist Church great opportunities for evangelism. Scores of
Latin Americans in the United States have told me that they would probably never have
known our message if they had not come to the United States.

But Latin American immigration into the United States also presents grave dangers. Most
of the immigrants are Roman Catholics who bring with them a Roman Catholic political and
religious philosophy. That is, they are unacquainted with the vision of the Founding
Fathers of the United States. They come from countries where Roman Catholicism has been
linked with the state and receives special favors from it. Separation of church and state is



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 167 of 385
an alien concept to them. In the future, when Catholicism implants its principles into the
political system of the United States these immigrants, as good Roman Catholics, will most
likely support religious legislation on the part of the government.

Shift in Prophetic Understanding

For some three hundred years after Luther nailed his 95 Theses to the cathedral door,
Protestants unanimously identified the papacy as the predicted antichrist of Bible
prophecy. As a result, country after country in Europe withdrew their support from the
papacy. The papacy knew that it would not be enough to counteract the message
(hammered out at the Council of Trent 1545-1563) of Protestantism so it undertook the
task of changing its method of interpreting prophecy.

In the early 19th century there was a shift in Protestant prophetic understanding (for the
full story read my book, Futurism’s Incredible Journey). Protestants forsook historicism as
the governing method for the study of Bible prophecy and embraced Preterism and
Futurism straight from the bosom of the Roman Catholic Jesuit counter-reformation:

      Preterism (Luis de Alcazar: Roman Catholicism and mainline protestant churches)
      Futurism: (Francisco Ribera: Conservative Protestantism such as Pentecostals,
       Baptists and Evangelicals)

Futurism and Preterism hide the identity of the first beast, the second beast, the image of
the beast and the mark of the beast. If you get the beast wrong everything else will be
wrong.

While everyone is looking at Israel, Turkey and the Islamic State in east for the
fulfillment of prophecy, it is fulfilling in the west with the papacy and the United States and
no one can see it because they are looking in the wrong place. This is the real reason for
the turmoil in the Middle East!

The Rise of the Charismatic Movement and Neo-Mysticism: Worship
styles based on subjective experience rather than the Word of God

Time magazine for March 21, 2005 carried an interesting article titled:

“Hail, Mary: Catholics have long revered her, but Protestants are finding their own
reasons to celebrate the mother of Jesus.”

In the article the writer states that Protestants are taking another look at Mary through the
prism of Roman Catholic eyes.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 168 of 385
The ideas and practices of Roman Catholic mystics are now being incorporated into the
prayer habits and devotional life of many Protestant churches and are taught regularly in
theological seminaries. These methods include practices that were established by Middle
Ages mystic, St. Francis Assisi (where Pope Francis I got his name) and by the founder of
the Jesuit Order, St. Ignatius Loyola. These practices are referred to by different names
including ‘Contemplative Prayer’ and ‘Spiritual Formation’. The end result of this type of
devotional life is to cast aside doctrine. ‘After all’, it is said, ‘why should we fight about arid,
dry, intellectual doctrines when the Spirit is giving us all the same experience’?

And sadly, Satan has not only invaded the Protestant world but also the Remnant Church. As
is well known, a refined type of Spiritualism is attempting to penetrate the Seventh-day
Adventist Church in the form of Spiritual Formation and Contemplative Prayer. Everyone
must be aware, for example, of the ONE PROJECT that many of our campus chaplains are
attempting to implement on our university campuses. Their expressed intention is to change
not only the face, but also the very heart of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It is
suggested that seven books be read on this subject:

      Stephen P. Bohr, Worship at Satan’s Throne
      Dave Fiedler, Tremble
      Rick Howard, Meet It
      Thomas Mostert, Hidden Heresy
      Howard Peth, The Dangers of Contemplative Prayer
      Rick Howard, The Omega Rebellion
      Carsten Johnsen, The Mystic Omega of End Time Crisis

The Prestige of John Paul II

John Paul II gave great visibility and likeability to the Roman Catholic Church. In spite of
the sex-abuse scandals, His travels to the four corners of the earth raised the esteem of the
Roman Catholic Church in the eyes of the world. John Paul was considered a role model
because he took a strong moral stand on issues such as the right to life, traditional
marriage, and against unrestrained materialism. He was a favorite among the youth and
was instrumental in bringing down the iron curtain.

The high esteem in which he was held by the world can be seen as much in his death as in
his life. At John Paul’s funeral there were 80 heads of state, political representatives from
over 200 countries, and representatives of all the world’s major religions including
Muslims, Jews, Hindus and Buddhists. Three United States presidents attended (Bill
Clinton, George Herbert Walker Bush, and George W. Bush; as well as Condoleezza Rice and
Mrs. Bush). It is said that Jimmy Carter wanted to attend but was slighted.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 169 of 385
One of the impressive pictures etched in memory’s hall was that of three presidents along
with Laura Bush and Condoleezza Rice kneeling before the Pope’s dead body. Over 5
million people from all over the world went to Rome to pay their respects to memory of
the Pope and some 300,000 gathered in St. Peter’s Square for the funeral. Some stood in
line for 24 hours just to view his body. For two weeks, practically the only news on
television was on the Pope’s life and death. The pomp and ceremonies that accompanied
the services were simply spectacular and awe-inspiring.

The Roman Catholic Media

The television media in the United States is almost totally controlled by Roman Catholics.
Most of the talk show hosts and news anchors and news pundits are Roman Catholics.

Renewed Emphasis on Sunday

John Paul II wrote a Pastoral Letter titled Dies Domini (the Lord’s Day) where he sought to
encourage the leaders of his church to put a renewed emphasis upon the importance of
Sunday as the ‘Christian Sabbath.’ In it he underlines that materialism and consumerism
have shut out God and people need a common day of worship for family life and personal
rest.

Notably, Protestants feel very comfortable with much of this pastoral letter because they
believe that Sunday is the correct day of worship. Traditionally, the Roman Catholic Church
has argued that the change of the Sabbath to Sunday was due to Tradition without any
foundation in Scripture. But John Paul II in Dies Domini uses the same skewed arguments
from Scripture that Protestants have used since time immemorial. I am sure that he has
done this to please Protestants who do not accept the authority of Tradition as the basis for
Sunday observance.

It is also well known that the Roman Catholic Church pressing hard for a Sunday law to be
enforced in the entire European Union. Hundreds of organizations including Protestant
Churches and labor unions have lobbied the European parliament for a European Union
Sunday law for the common good of family and social harmony. It is recommended that the
students read my article: “Reflections on the Pope’s Agenda” in this syllabus for more
information on how Pope Francis I have used poverty, immigration, family and climate
change to highlight the importance of Sunday.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 170 of 385
Prophecy’s View: The Sword will be Restored

Dr. Ralph Reed who was the president of the Christian Coalition in its heyday once stated:

“The truth my friends is this. Catholicism never has been, is not today, and never will be a
threat to American democracy. It was and remains the most colorful and the most vibrant
thread running through the tapestry of American democracy.” (Quoted in G. Edward Reid,
Sunday’s Coming, p. 72)

To the contrary, Ellen White warned:

“When Protestant churches shall unite with the secular power to sustain a false religion, for
opposing which their ancestors endured the fiercest persecution, then will the papal sabbath
be enforced by the combined authority of church and state. There will be a national
apostasy, which will end only in national ruin.” Ev, p. 235 (1899)

“Protestants will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the papacy. By a
national act enforcing the false sabbath they will give life and vigor to the corrupt faith of
Rome, reviving [Revelation 13:3] her tyranny and oppression of conscience.” Maranatha, p.
179

“When the leading churches of the United States, uniting upon such points of doctrine as
are held by them in common, shall influence the state to enforce their decrees and to sustain
their institutions, then Protestant America will have formed an image of the Roman hierarchy,
and the infliction of civil penalties upon dissenters will inevitably result. GC, p. 445

“. . . there is an increasing indifference concerning the doctrines that separate the reformed
churches from the papal hierarchy; the opinion is gaining ground that, after all, we do not
differ so widely upon vital points as has been supposed, and that a little concession on our
part will bring us into a better understanding with Rome.” GC, p. 563

“Protestants have tampered with and patronized popery; they have made compromises and
concessions which papists themselves are surprised to see and fail to understand. Men are
closing their eyes to the real character of Romanism and the dangers to be apprehended from
her supremacy. The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this most dangerous
foe to civil and religious liberty.” GC, p. 566

Ellen White explained the secret of the power and prosperity of the USA:

“Among the Christian exiles who first fled to America and sought an asylum from royal
oppression and priestly intolerance were many who determined to establish a government
upon the broad foundation of civil and religious liberty. Their views found place in the
Declaration of Independence, which sets forth the great truth that "all men are created equal"



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 171 of 385
and endowed with the inalienable right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." And the
Constitution guarantees to the people the right of self-government, providing that
representatives elected by the popular vote shall enact and administer the laws. Freedom of
religious faith was also granted, every man being permitted to worship God according to the
dictates of his conscience. Republicanism and Protestantism became the fundamental
principles of the nation. These principles are the secret of its power and prosperity.” GC, p.
411.

Political Ecumenism

In 1867 the United States broke relations with the Vatican and forbade any future
diplomatic relations with it. But a subtle change in mood on the part of the United States
government was seen when in 1951, president Harry Truman suggested that it would be
a good idea to formalize diplomatic relations with the Vatican. Truman was not prepared
for the uproar and backlash from the American people who were still very much aware of
the antagonism between the principles of Protestantism and Romanism.

When Truman nominated General Mark W. Clark to be our ambassador to the Vatican,
the public opposition was so strong that General Clark withdrew his name and the
nomination was killed before it reached confirmation in the Senate. In 1970 President
Richard Nixon asked Henry Cabot Lodge to make periodic visits to the Vatican for the
purpose of exchanging views on international and humanitarian projects but he did so
without diplomatic status.

But on September 22, 1983 the ban on diplomatic relations came to an end when Ronald
Reagan (with barely a whimper from an inclusive and pluralistic American people)
appointed William A Wilson as the first United States ambassador, not to the State of
Vatican City, but to the Holy See. The announcement was made on January 10, 1984. On
March 7, 1984, the Senate confirmed William A. Wilson as the first U.S. ambassador to
the Holy See. Now, for the first time, one of the two world superpowers had contributed to
the healing of the deadly wound. Just six years later, the other superpower (Communism)
would cave when in 1989 the Soviet Union also established full diplomatic relations with
the Holy See.

Though the appointment of William A. Wilson did not awaken the furor that the
nomination of General Mark W. Clark had, there was still much discussion in the Senate
before his confirmation. The discussion revolved around the issue of how the United States
could send an ambassador to a church and yet not violate the constitutional separation of
church and state. Some senators tried to obviate this problem by insisting that the
ambassador was being sent to Vatican State rather than to the Holy See. Concerning this
crafty argument, V. Norskov Olsen remarks:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 172 of 385
“While Vatican City is subordinated to the Holy See and ambassadors are accredited not to the
former but to the latter [the Holy See], it is acknowledged that the Pope could not claim the
prerogatives of a temporal ruler without the Vatican City State. Referring to the international
juristic personality of the Catholic Church and the Lateran Treaty, Cardinal Hyginus Eugene,
apostolic nuncio to Belgium and the European Economic Council, writes that the latter
‘merely once more provided the Pope, who is the spiritual sovereign of the Church, with
another title to sovereignty, that of temporal sovereignty, which would immediately cease to
exist if the Vatican State became extinct.’” (V. Norskov Olsen, Papal Supremacy and American
Democracy (Riverside, California: Loma Linda University Press, 1987), p. 52.

What Olsen is saying is simply this: It is impossible to say that the ambassador is being sent
to Vatican State without at the same time saying that the ambassador is being sent to the
Holy See. The reason is simple: Vatican State gives the Pope, as the religious leader of the
Holy See, a legitimate right to claim temporal power. You cannot any more separate the
Pope’s secular power from his religious power than you can separate the body from the
spirit!

Another controversial issue had to be resolved was how the United States could show
preferential treatment to one church above all the others. This problem was simply
ignored and never resolved. Yet in spite of these two problems, the nomination went
through with few objections. The United States had prepared the way for the full healing of
the deadly wound!

The Holy Alliance

One of the greatest dangers to world peace after the Second World War was the global
growth of communism. The spirit of communism that had its origins in the French
Revolution, expanded to Russia in the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution and matured in the
agreement between Truman, Churchill and Stalin after World War II. It was further
bolstered in the 1960’s when nation after nation seemed to be embracing communism. In
order for the papacy to ascend to global power, Communism had to be overcome and it
was, thanks to an alliance between the United States government and the Vatican. As
reported in Time Magazine:

“On June 7, 1982, Reagan and John Paul met for fifty minutes at the Vatican. During that
conversation the plot was hatched to eliminate communism. In that meeting, Reagan and
the Pope agreed to undertake a clandestine campaign to hasten the dissolution of the
communist empire. Declares Richard Allen, Reagan’s first National Security Adviser: ‘This was
one of the great secret alliances of all time.” Time, February 24, 1992, “The Holy Alliance, p.
28.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 173 of 385
The fascinating book by Carl Bernstein, His Holiness, documents with luxury of detail what
happened behind the scenes. The economic and military might of the United States
combined with the on-the-ground intelligence of the Roman Catholic Church brought
down the Iron Curtain. Ironically, Reagan and the Pope were wounded by would be
assassins just a few months apart but their wounds were healed. They both had a destiny
to fulfill.

In 1990, Malachi Martin published the book, The Keys of this Blood where he stated that
there were three systems vying for global control and only one could win. Catholicism is
well on its way to winning this global competition.

On May 24, 2000, Congressman Chris Smith introduced legislation to award the
Congressional Gold Medal to Pope John Paul II. By July, the House and the Senate had
passed the bill and Baptist President Bill Clinton signed the bill on July 27.

Historical Amnesia In Our Own Church

Now I am going to read a statement and I want you to guess who wrote it. After writing
about how the Roman Catholic Church controlled the consciences of the populace during
the middle Ages, the author states:

“But those days are over. The world has changed. The United States has changed. And even
the Roman Catholic Church has changed, in the second half of our century, having reconciled
itself with progress, liberalism and modern civilization. It is no longer the Bible-suppressing,
science-resisting, liberty-opposing, Protestant-hating, culture ignoring, Latin-mumbling,
obscurantism loving ecclesiastical organization of former years, intent on ruling the world
from Rome. Vatican Council II transformed all that.

“To ignore these new realities and to refuse to come to terms with the contemporary Roman
Church is to choose to remain stuck in a religious no-man’s-land, condemning a church that
no longer exits, using old labels and propaganda that only offend and alienate deeply.
Instead, Seventh-day Adventists ought to involve themselves in building bridges of
understanding to reach out to Roman Catholics and developing bonds of love to enable
them with us to arrive at a fuller appreciation and application of the gospel of Jesus Christ.”

The author was Paul J. Landa, history professor of La Sierra University. This quotation was
published in Adventist Today, July/August, 1993. Is it possible that even in our own
church we have made concessions and approaches toward apostate Protestantism and
Rome?

It is a little known fact among the rank and file membership of the Seventh-day Adventist
Church that our church belongs to several commissions of the World Council of Churches.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 174 of 385
Most probably don’t know that the religious liberty department of the General Conference
gave a gold medal to Pope Paul VI, that the flag of the Holy See was paraded across the
stage at the St. Louis General Conference in 2005, that Andrews University invited two
Roman Catholic priests from Notre Dame University to lecture on evangelism at our
Theological Seminary, that some of our prominent theologians were involved in dialogue
with Roman Catholic scholars for several years, that two former teachers from La Sierra
University have encouraged Adventists to build bridges of understanding between the
Seventh-day Adventist Church and the Roman Catholic Church and that many of our
scholars are shifting our view of the number 666 to a Roman Catholic view. Just as
disturbing is the fact that many churches have discouraged the preaching of Bible
prophecy for fear of offending Catholics and Protestants.

Global Unity

Ellen White predicted triumvirate global unity at the end composed of Papists, Protestants
and Worldlings:

“The line of distinction between professed Christians and the ungodly is now hardly
distinguishable. Church members love what the world loves and are ready to join with them,
and Satan determines to unite them in one body and thus strengthen his cause by sweeping
all into the ranks of spiritualism. Papists, who boast of miracles as a certain sign of the true
church, will be readily deceived by this wonder-working power; and Protestants, having cast
away the shield of truth, will also be deluded. Papists, Protestants, and worldlings will alike
accept the form of godliness without the power, and they will see in this union a grand
movement for the conversion of the world and the ushering in of the long-expected
millennium.” GC, pp. 588, 589

"And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her
seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." In the
near future we shall see these words fulfilled as the Protestant churches unite with the
world and with the papal power against Commandment keepers. The same spirit which
actuated papists in ages past will lead Protestants to pursue a similar course toward those
who will maintain their loyalty to God.” 5T, p. 449

Seventh-day Adventists have rightly placed emphasis upon the unity of the papacy with
apostate Protestantism but have not given equal emphasis to the third member of the
apostate triumvirate:

“Kings and rulers and governors have placed upon themselves the brand of antichrist, and
are represented as the dragon who goes to make war with the saints--with those who keep
the commandments of God and who have the faith of Jesus. In their enmity against the people



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 175 of 385
of God, they show themselves guilty also of the choice of Barabbas instead of Christ.” TM, p.
39

In Revelation 12 the dragon that attempted to slay the male child was Satan but Satan
worked through a shadow ruler of the Roman Empire to accomplish his purposes. In
Revelation 17 we once again find the same triumvirate—the harlot, the daughters and the
kings with whom the harlot fornicates. In Revelation 19 we have the beast, the false
prophet and the kings of the earth arrayed against Jesus. Only in Revelation 20 do we see
the real ruler who stands behind the kings, and that is Satan.

Pilate’s Lesson

We have been warned that unscrupulous and self-serving legislators, like Pilate, in
order to retain their political influence, will give in to the popular demand for a national
Sunday law and will condemn God’s faithful children to death.

“To secure popularity and patronage [votes], legislators will yield to the demand for a
Sunday law.” Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, p. 451

As in the days of Christ the religious leaders of the day influenced the people to clamor for
the crucifixion of Jesus, so will it be again:

“Plans of serious import to the people of God are advancing in an underhand manner among
the clergymen of various denominations, and the object of this secret maneuvering is to
win popular favor for the enforcement of Sunday sacredness. If the people can be led to favor
a Sunday law, then the clergy intend to exert their united influence to obtain a religious
amendment to the Constitution, and compel the nation to keep Sunday.” Review and Herald,
December 24, 1889

When Pilate offered to release Jesus in place of Barabbas the populace clamored that
Barabbas be released instead. And who instigated the multitudes to clamor for the release
of Barabbas? Notice the answer in Mark 15:11:

“But the chief priests stirred up the crowd, so that he should rather release Barabbas to
them.”

It was the ministers of that day and age who instigated the multitudes to cry out for the
blood of Jesus. The initiative came from the religious leaders, not from the state or from
the populace. Are we to expect anything less in the end time? Notice how God’s people will
repeat the story of Jesus:

“Those who honor the Bible Sabbath will be denounced as enemies of law and order, as
breaking down the moral restraints of society, causing anarchy and corruption, and calling



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 176 of 385
down the judgments of God upon the earth. Their conscientious scruples will be pronounced
obstinacy, stubbornness, and contempt of authority. They will be accused of disaffection
toward the government. Ministers who deny the obligation of the divine law will present
from the pulpit the duty of yielding obedience to the civil authorities as ordained of God.
In legislative halls and courts of justice, commandment keepers will be misrepresented and
condemned. A false coloring will be given to their words; the worst construction will be put
upon their motives.” GC, p. 592

Lessons from the Earliest Church

When the early church lost the Spirit and power of the true gospel, the moral condition of
the empire quickly deteriorated. The church leaders, seeing that morality was at such a
low point, linked up with the state to enforce morality and the result was the papacy
which used the sword of the civil power to punish those who dissented.

The prophecy of Revelation 13:11-18 indicates that Protestantism in the United States
will make an image of this. Protestantism has lost the Spirit and power of the true
gospel; it has preached for so long that we not under law but under grace that people
have come to believe that Christians are not required to keep the law. And the result has
been the moral disintegration of society!

Protestantism’s Power Failure

The Protestants of the United States decry that morality in the United States has been going
from bad to worse. Abortion has become commonplace, pornography, divorce and
marriage between homosexuals has become a fact of life. The proliferation of illegal drugs
runs rampant. Mass shootings seem to be the order of the day. Many religious leaders have
appealed to the arm of civil power to fix what they themselves have created. They
blame what they call a secular humanist government for the steady decline in morality
when they themselves, by the doctrine of ‘cheap grace’ have to a great degree caused the
problem.

Protestants today have come to believe that by having “In God we Trust” on our currency, or
by reciting “one nation under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance, or by mandating prayer in
public schools, or by posting the Ten Commandments in our courtrooms or by putting
Christmas displays on public property, or by enacting a constitutional amendment
against gay marriage, the nation will be brought back to God.

But Protestantism has forgotten that its real source of power is found in preaching the
unadulterated Word of God through the ministration of the Holy Spirit. Instead,
Protestantism has emphasized a prosperity gospel, a gospel of signs and wonders, a
gospel of psychological self-help and a gospel of political involvement. It has thus lost


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 177 of 385
its power and sees government as the way to solve the problem they themselves have
created.

When church and state are fully joined together in unholy matrimony, and I believe this is
transpiring before our very eyes, then the only and final court of appeal for the saints will
be God.

The Perspective of Revelation 17

Revelation 17 presents a vivid portrayal of the time when the prophecy of Revelation
13:11-18 will be fulfilled. The chapter portrays a harlot woman who sits on many waters,
that is, she rules over nations, multitudes, tongues and people (17:1, 15). She fornicates
with the kings of the earth (17:2) and is garbed in purple and scarlet and decked with
gold, precious stones and pearls (17:4). The kings of the world gladly drink her
fermented wine of false doctrine (17:2). She has daughters that were born from her at
some point because she is called the ‘mother of harlots’ (17:5). Along with her daughters
she sheds the blood of the saints and the martyrs of Jesus (17:6). Even the merchants of
the earth become rich by the relations that they keep with her (Revelation 18:6-24). Thus
the church, the state, the merchants and the people will unite to persecute those who do
not agree with this New World Order.

Prophecy tells us that for a while the kings of the earth will do the bidding of the mother
and her daughters. But at the climactic moment when God’s faithful people are about to
be slain, the kings of the earth will turn on her for we are told that they “will hate the
harlot, make her desolate and naked, eat her flesh and burn her with fire.” (17:16, 17).
Thus, the very same sword that the harlot used to slay the saints of the Most High will be
used to give her a definitive deadly wound.

Ellen White describes this climactic moment when the political rulers and the
multitudes will withdraw their support from their religious leaders:

“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having led them to
destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation upon the ministers.
Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they have led their hearers to make void
the law of God and to persecute those who would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these
teachers confess before the world their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with
fury. "We are lost!" they cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false
shepherds. The very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful
curses upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be raised for their
destruction. The swords that were to slay God's people are now employed to destroy their
enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed.” GC, p. 655



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 178 of 385
Another French Revolution

It will be remembered that when the Pope was taken captive in 1798 AD the handcuffs
that had fallen off the papacy in 508 AD were slapped on again and the sword was
removed from her hand; thus she went into captivity and could no longer use the
political powers and the masses to accomplish her purposes.

But the United States will be the power to unlock the cuffs and give the papacy her
freedom again. And the United States will put the sword of civil power in her hand once
more.

For a while the papacy, allied with Protestants, will seem to have the upper hand. But in
the end Jesus will deliver His faithful people as he did the three young Hebrews and Daniel.

Daniel 12:1-3 describes this period of jeopardy for God’s people and their final
deliverance by God:

"At that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over the sons of your
people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even
to that time. And at that time your people shall be delivered, every one who is found written
in the book and many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to
everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt. 3 Those who are wise shall shine
like the brightness of the firmament and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars
forever and ever.”

Impressive will be the moment when the kings of the earth and their subjects will turn
on the Mother of harlots and her daughters. A French Revolution of global proportions
will ensue and this time the deadly wound will never heal again!

The Story of Esther

The ancient story of Esther is a vivid illustration of what will soon transpire with God’s
faithful and obedient remnant on a global scale.

In this story we are told that the civil ruler, king Ahasuerus, gave a decree that all should
bow and pay homage to Haman (3:2). When Mordecai refused to do so (3:2) Haman was
filled with wrath to such a degree that he was able to persuade the king to write a death
decree against Mordecai and all the Jews (3:8). Haman’s wife even suggested that he build
a gallows for Mordecai to hang in (5:14). The reasons Haman gave for the decree are
fascinating:

“Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus: "There is a certain people scattered and dispersed
among the people in all the provinces of your kingdom; their laws are different from all


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 179 of 385
other peoples and they do not keep the king's laws. Therefore it is not fitting for the king to
let them remain.”

Haman argued before the king that for the survival of the nation Mordecai and the Jews
had to be eradicated. After all, disobedience to the laws of a nation would lead only to
anarchy and dissolution of the empire. A death decree was written by Haman and
enforced by the authority of the king.

All seemed to be going according to plan until the plot was unmasked by Queen Esther. By
the providence of God the evil triumvirate was broken up and the king turned on Haman
and his wife and the very gallows that were raised to slay Mordecai were used to slay
Haman and his wife.

A Recurring Pattern

      King Darius turned on the enemies of Daniel.
      Haman and his wife influenced the king and the king turned on them.
      The Jewish leadership influenced the Romans to kill Jesus and the Romans turned
       on them.
      The papacy used the power of the state and the state turned against the papacy in
       the French Revolution.
      Kings of the earth that supported the harlot will hate the harlot who has used them
       to slay the saints of the most high.

Ellen White had this incisive comment about the relationship between the first beast and
second beast of Revelation 13:

“I saw that the two-horned beast had a dragon's mouth, and that his power was in his head,
and that the decree would go out of his mouth. Then I saw the Mother of Harlots; that the
mother was not the daughters, but separate and distinct from them. She has had her day,
and it is past, and her daughters, the Protestant sects, were the next to come on the stage and
act out the same mind that the mother had when she persecuted the saints. I saw that as
the mother has been declining in power, the daughters had been growing, and soon they will
exercise the power once exercised by the mother. I saw the nominal church and nominal
Adventists, like Judas, would betray us to the Catholics to obtain their influence to come
against the truth. The saints then will be an obscure people, little known to the Catholics; but
the churches and nominal Adventists who know of our faith and customs (for they hated us on
account of the Sabbath, for they could not refute it) will betray the saints and report them to
the Catholics as those who disregard the institutions of the people; that is, that they keep the
Sabbath and disregard Sunday. Then the Catholics bid the Protestants to go forward, and
issue a decree that all who will not observe the first day of the week, instead of the seventh



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 180 of 385
day, shall be slain. And the Catholics, whose numbers are large, will stand by the
Protestants. The Catholics will give their power to the image of the beast. And the
Protestants will work as their mother worked before them to destroy the saints. But before
their decree bring or bear fruit, the saints will be delivered by the Voice of God.” Ellen G.
White, Spaulding-Magan Collection, pp. 1, 2




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 181 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 182 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr


  LESSON #8 – THE NUMBER OF THE BEAST: 666

Introduction

For as long as I can remember, Seventh-day Adventist evangelists have applied the number
666 to one of the Latin titles of the Pope, namely, Vicarius Filii Dei. They have claimed that
this title (which means ‘Vicar of the Son of God’) is one of the official titles that have
traditionally been used by the popes. Some of our evangelists have also affirmed that the
title is (or has been) inscribed on the pope’s tiara or on his miter.

Have our evangelists been correct in their assessment? Is this really one of the official titles
that have been traditionally claimed by a succession of popes? Was this title really on the
papal tiara or miter in times past?

Recently several of our ablest scholars have answered “no” to these questions. A new view
has appeared on the horizon with defenders of the caliber of Dr. William G. Johnsson, Dr.
Beatrice Neall, Dr. Samuele Bacchiocchi, Dr. Jon Paulien, Dr. Ranko Stefanovic and Dr. Angel
M. Rodriguez. These theologians have challenged the traditional view and have proposed
a new one.

The traditional view is very specific. It applies the name and number of the beast directly to
a succession of Roman Catholic popes. The new view has removed this specific meaning
from the Roman Catholic papacy and has applied it in general terms to an end-time
alienation of man from God.

Several years ago Dr. Beatrice Neall articulated the new view:

“Six is legitimate when it leads to seven; it represents man on the first evening of his existence
entering into the celebration of God’s creative power. The glory of the creature is right if it
leads to the glory of God. Six hundred sixty-six, however, represents the refusal of man to
proceed to seven, to give glory to God as Creator and Redeemer. It represents man’s fixation
with himself, man seeking glory in himself and his own creations. It speaks of the fullness of



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 183 of 385
creation and all creative powers without God—the practice of the absence of God. It
demonstrates that unregenerate man is persistently evil.” Beatrice Neall, The Concept of
Character in the Apocalypse with Implications for Character Education, pp. 153-155.

This rather philosophical, conjectural, if not speculative definition of the number six has
been picked up and simplified by Dr. Angel M. Rodriguez:

“. . . the Greek phrase translated ‘It is a man’s number’ (Revelation 13:18) could be also
rendered ‘it is the number of humanity.’ In that case, it is not referring to a particular person
but to a characteristic of humanity separated from God. Since God created humans during
the sixth day, it could stand as a symbol of humanity, but a humanity not yet at rest with
God and without the joy of a harmonious relationship with God during the seventh day. The
number reveals the rebellious nature of the enemies of God and His remnant. That seems to be
the best available interpretation.” Angel M. Rodriguez, Future Glory, p. 122. Bold type is
mine.

This change has upset some in the church who feel that the traditional view is more than
adequate to explain the mystery of the number 666. Many feel that the new view has taken
what is definite and clear and made it indefinite and fuzzy. Others have gone so far as to
believe that the Seventh-day Adventist Church has been infiltrated by Jesuits who have the
hidden agenda of destroying our distinctive prophetic roots with a view to ultimately
destroy the Seventh-day Adventist Church itself.

This later fear has been fed in recent years by Adventist college teachers who have stated
that we should build bridges of understanding with Rome rather than criticizing her. The
conspiracy flames have been further fanned when a medal was given to the Pope by the
religious liberty department of the General Conference and also when the flag of the Holy
See was paraded on stage at the 2005 General Conference session in St. Louis during the
March of Nations.

A Blasphemous Name

In this article I would like to take a closer look at the number 666 as it relates to the name
of the beast. As we begin, there are several Biblical facts that will help us understand this
enigmatic number and the system to which it applies.

First, a very important fact that has been overlooked more frequently than not is that the
name of the beast is a blasphemous name. This is stated explicitly in Revelation 13:1:

“Then I stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising up out of the sea, having seven
heads and ten horns, and on his horns ten crowns, and on his heads a blasphemous name.”

Now that we know that the name (whose number is 666) is blasphemous, we must
discover the Biblical definition of blasphemy. Is there such a definition? The answer is an
emphatic yes!



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 184 of 385
Biblical Definition of Blasphemy

The Scriptures clearly define blasphemy as man’s attempt to occupy the place of God and
as such to exercise the power and prerogatives of God. When Jesus affirmed: “I and my
Father are one” (John 10:30) the Jews went ballistic. They picked up stones to execute the
death penalty required by the Law (Leviticus 24:16). When Jesus asked them what evil
work He had done to merit stoning, they responded:

"For a good work we do not stone You, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a Man,
make Yourself God." (John 10:33)

The terminology of the accusation is significant. Jesus was reprimanded for blasphemy
because He, in their view, being a man, made himself God. In fact, Jesus not only claimed to
be God, He also claimed to work the works of God! (John 10: 28, 37, 38)

In the thinking of the Jewish leaders, Jesus was guilty of blasphemy when He claimed to be
the Son of God (Matthew 26:64; 10:36, 37; John 19:7). All the Jews claimed to be sons of
God in a general sense but it is clear that Jesus did not claim to be a Son of God in a general
sense but in the strictest sense of being the representative of God on earth! He was the
spokesman for God on earth—His vicar, if you please! This is the reason why Jesus could
say: “He who has seen me has seen the Father.” Jesus undoubtedly claimed to be Vicarius Dei,
and rightfully so.

Blasphemy is also defined as when a mere man claims to have the power to forgive sins.
This means that any man who claims to have the right to exercise the prerogatives of God is
guilty of blasphemy. When Jesus told the paralytic of Capernaum: “Your sins are forgiven”
the religious leaders murmured saying:

“Why does this Man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone?" (Mark
2:7).

The religious leaders were actually thinking: If this man claims to have the right to forgive
sins, then he must claim to be God because only God can forgive sins.

In the Temple of God

2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4 has similar terminology. Here we are told that the man of sin sits in
the temple of God (the church) proclaiming himself to be God. Once again we notice that
this power is human and yet it seeks to occupy the place of God. Later on in the passage we
are told that this power also claims to perform the works that Jesus Himself performed
while He was on earth (2 Thessalonians 2:9; Acts 2:22). 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4 actually
paraphrases the language from Daniel 11:36 where we are told that the king of the north
“shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every
god, and shall speak marvelous things against the God of gods.” It will be noticed that the
exaltation of the king of the north to the level of God is linked with the great words that He


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 185 of 385
speaks against the God of gods. The use of the word “man” in these verses does not require
that we find one particular person as the fulfillment. Adventists have understood the word
“man” in this passage to refer, not to an individual, but rather to a succession of persons,
namely, the popes of Rome.

In this context it is worthy of note that the little horn of Daniel 7 (that symbolizes the same
power as the beast of Revelation 13:1-10 and the man of sin of II Thessalonians 2) has a
mouth that speaks “pompous words against the Most High” (Daniel 7:25). These great words
are identified as blasphemies in Revelation 13:5 where we are told that the beast was
given a mouth that speaks “great things and blasphemies.” This little horn/beast not only
claims to be God but also claims to have the power to exercise the prerogatives of God even
to the point of changing God’s prophetic times and His Law! (Daniel 7:25) Thus, in a very
specific sense, the little horn (or the beast) claims the right to occupy the place of God and
to exercise the power and prerogatives of God.

In what sense does this little horn/beast speak blasphemies against God? Daniel 8 provides
the indisputable answer. In Daniel 8 (in distinction to Daniel 7) we are not told that the
little horn speaks blasphemies against the Most High. Rather, we are told that the little horn
attempted to supplant or take the place of the Prince of the host by taking away the daily
ministration from Him (Daniel 8:11). Thus the little horn’s blasphemy consists in the act of
trying to supplant or take the place of the Prince of the host and to carry on His work.

In the light of this overwhelming Biblical evidence, it would seem that the blasphemous
name of the beast must be linked with his attempt to supplant or occupy the place of God
and to exercise the power and prerogatives of God.

There can be no doubt that the power represented by the little horn, the beast and the man
of sin is the Roman Catholic Papacy. The little horn (and the beast) does not appear in a
vacuum. There is a clear sequence of powers which precede the horn’s arrival on the scene.
The kingdoms of Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, Rome and divided Rome must rule before
the little horn comes on the scene.

Testimony of Church Historians

Numerous quotations could be provided from Roman Catholic writers to the effect that the
Pope claims to occupy the place of God on earth. Space limitations will allow for only a few
examples.

“. . . the pope can modify divine law, since his power if not of man, but of God, and he acts in
the place of God upon earth, with the fullest power of binding and losing his sheep.” (Lucius
Ferraris, Prompta Bibliotheca, vol. 2, article ‘Papa’, bold is mine)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 186 of 385
Pope Nicholas I (who ruled from 858-867 A. D.) once said:

“It is evident that the popes can neither be bound nor unbound by any earthly power, nor even
by that of the apostle [Peter], if he should return upon the earth; since Constantine the Great
has recognized that the pontiffs held the place of God upon earth, divinity not being able
to be judged by any living man. We are, then, infallible, and whatever may be our acts, we
are not accountable for them but to ourselves.” (Cormenin, History of the Popes, p. 243, as
cited in R. W. Thompson, The Papacy and the Civil Power, p. 248, bold is mine).

Pope Leo XIII in an Encyclical Letter (‘On the Chief Duties of Christians as Citizens’) dated
January 10, 1890 affirmed:

“But the supreme teacher in the Church is the Roman Pontiff. Union of minds, therefore,
requires, together with a perfect accord in the one faith, complete submission and obedience
of will to the Church and to the Roman Pontiff, as to God Himself.” (The Great Encyclical
Letters of Leo XIII, p. 193, bold is mine)

Leo XIII in an encyclical letter dated June 20, 1894 further stated:

“We hold upon this earth the place of God Almighty.” (The Great Encyclical Letters of Leo
XIII, p. 304, bold is mine)

Repeatedly Roman Catholic sources refer to the popes as vicars of Christ, vice-regents of
Christ, representatives of Christ, and, yes, Vicars of the Son of God (proof to be provided
later in this article).

The Prerogatives of God

Furthermore, the popes have claimed the right to exercise the power and prerogatives that
belong only to God. They claim to have the right to forgive sins (cf. Mark 2:7), to set up and
remove kings (cf. Daniel 2:21), to be bowed down to (cf. Revelation 19:10), to be called
Holy Father (cf. Matthew 23:9), to execute the death penalty upon dissenters (cf. Daniel
7:21), to change the Sabbath (cf. Daniel 2:21; 7:25), to change God’s prophetic calendar
(cf. Daniel 7:25), to be the supreme judges of heaven, earth and hell whose decision
cannot be appealed (cf. John 5:22, 27) and to be infallible expositors in matters of faith and
morals (cf. James 1:17).

The Number of the Name

Second, besides the name of the beast being blasphemous, the name also has a number
(Revelation 13:17). The critical question at this point is this: How do we get a number from
a name? The answer lies in the fact that in ancient times numbers were written with the
letters of the alphabet. This practice, referred to as gematria, was used in Hebrew, Greek
and Latin. This means that when the letters of the beast’s blasphemous name are given
their respective numerical value the total will be 666.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 187 of 385
The Living Bible paraphrase captures well the meaning of Revelation 13:18:

“Here is a puzzle that calls for careful thought to solve it. Let those who are able, interpret this
code: the numerical values of the letters in his name add to 666!”

The New English Bible translates Revelation 13:18 in a similar fashion:

“The number represents a man’s name, and the numerical value of its letters is six hundred
and sixty-six.”

Even the Roman Catholic Douay Version adds a footnote to Revelation 13:18 which states:
“The numeral letters of his name shall make up this number.”

Recently, Dr. Samuele Bacchiocchi has argued that the text of Revelation 13:18 requires a
name rather than a title. After all, the text says that 666 is the number of the beast’s name
and not the number of his title. Dr. Bacchiocchi therefore states that Vicarius Filii Dei, being
a title rather than a name, cannot fulfill the specifications of the text (Endtime Issues,
Online Newsletter, “The Saga of the Adventist Papal Tiara,” part 2). This argument is
superficial and can be disposed of quite readily by noting that in Revelation 19:16 Jesus is
described as one who has a name written on his vesture and on his thigh. But the name is
not a personal name but rather a title: “King of kings and Lord of lords.” So the word “name”
can refer to a title rather than to a proper name.

The Number of a Man

Third, we are told in Revelation 13:18 that number 666 is the number of a man. It is
important to realize that the noun “man” has no definite article. This means that
qualitatively the beast is a system that is centered in man. It is noteworthy that the little
horn has eyes like a man, the apostate one of II Thessalonians 2 is called the man of sin and
here the beast has the number of a man. This is certainly a system that is based on the
power and prowess of man.

Some of our scholars have recently attempted to say that the expression “the number of a
man” should really be translated “the number of humanity.” But the book of Revelation
does not use the word anthropos in this sense. To translate the word anthropos in this
manner denotes the art of interpretation rather than of translation. I checked several of
the better known versions of the Bible (New International, Jerusalem, New English, New
American Standard, King James, New King James, New American, Weymouth, Phillips, RSV)
to ascertain how they translate the expression: “arithmós gár anthroópou estín” (‘it is the
number of a man’). Interestingly, only the RSV with its liberal gender inclusive slant
translates: “it is a human number.” Not one of the major versions translates “for it is the
number of humanity.”

Is the text of Revelation 13:18 really telling us that the number 666 applies to humanity in
general rather than to the beast specifically? A careful study of Revelation 13:1-10 (and



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 188 of 385
also of Daniel 7 and 2 Thessalonians 2) reveals unmistakably that the beast represents the
Roman Catholic papacy as a system, not humanity in general. If the number is the number
of the beast, and the beast is a symbol of the papacy, then the number cannot apply to
humanity in general but rather specifically to the papacy.

A parallel text would be II Thessalonians 2 where the same system is referred to as the
man of sin. The word “man” here is not referring to a specific individual but rather to a
succession of rulers who make man the measure of all things rather than God. Would any
serious Biblical scholar say that the expression “man [anthropos] of sin” should be
translated “the humanity of sin”? Would it be proper to translate the “eyes of a man” in
Daniel 7:8 as “the eyes of humanity”? This would be absurd. The simple fact is that the
system represented by the little horn/man of sin/beast is based on the wisdom and
prowess of man while claiming to have the right to exercise the power and prerogatives of
God. In other words, it is a system that is man-centered rather than God-centered. In this
sense there is a grain of truth in the idea that the number six represents a system which is
centered in man while the number 7 represents a system that is based on God.

The Language of the Name

A very important question comes to the fore at this point: In which language should we
look for the name or title? Should the name be sought in Hebrew, Greek, Latin or perhaps
even English? Angel Manuel Rodriguez has advised caution at this point. He states that “we
confront the problem of determining which language to use. The biblical text does not specify
any particular language; therefore, any that we selected would be a matter of personal
opinion.” (Angel Manuel Rodriguez, Future Glory, p. 122)

But is Dr. Rodriguez’ statement accurate? I believe that we can definitely know from the
Bible itself which language to use! And which language is that? There is persuasive
evidence that the name and number must be found in the Latin language.

You are probably wondering why the name and number should be in Latin. The answer is
actually quite simple. The beast is clearly a Roman power and the official language of Rome
was Latin (that Latin was the Roman language of New Testament times can be proved from
John 19:20).

Notice that according to Revelation 13:2 the beast received his “power, his throne, and
great authority” (Revelation 13:2) from the dragon. Though the dragon primarily
represents Satan (Revelation 12:9), it also represents the kingdom through which Satan
attempted to slay the man child and this kingdom was Rome (Matthew 2:16; Revelation
12:1-5) It is not coincidental that the Catholic Church is officially called the Roman Catholic
Church.

Now, if the beast represents the Roman Catholic papacy, then we should look for his name
in Latin, the official language of ancient Rome and Papal Rome! And if the name is in Latin



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 189 of 385
then we should use Roman numerals to ascertain the number of his name! In short, both
the name and the respective numerical equivalents of its letters must be sought in the Latin
language.

Summary of the Main Points

Let’s summarize what the Bible tells us about this number: First, it must be a blasphemous
name. That is to say, it must be a name whose bearer claims to represent God and to
exercise the power and prerogatives of God. Second, the name must be in Latin, the
language of Rome. Third, the numerical equivalents of the letters of the name must be
found in Roman numerals. Fourth, the number must be that of a man. It will be noticed that
the title Vicarious Filii Dei fits all of these criteria.

But two critically important questions remain to be answered. But before we do, allow me
to digress for just a moment.

Roman Numerals

It is noteworthy that the Latin poets who originally devised the system of Roman numerals
broke with the norm of the day and instead of using all the letters of the alphabet to
represent numbers they chose only six characters to represent all numbers: I, V, X, L, C and
D (the M was not part of the original numerical system. Before the advent of the M, the
number 1,000 was written by placing two D’s side by side). When the six Roman numerals
are added, the total is 666. This strongly suggests that the number 666 is linked in some
manner with Rome.

Is Vicarius Filii Dei an Official Title?

Now to the two questions: Is the name Vicarius Filii Dei a title which has been given to the
Pope by Roman Catholics themselves or is it a Protestant fabrication? And, was this title
ever inscribed on the papal tiara or miter? Let’s wrestle with the first question.

The historical evidence indicates that the answer to the first question is yes. Some, such as
Roman Catholic apologist Patrick Madrid, have claimed that the name Vicarius Filii Dei has
never been used as a title for the Pope (though later he revised his statement to say that it
was never an official title). Says Madrid: “Vicarius Filii Dei, or ‘Vicar of the Son of God,’ is
not now, nor has it ever been, a title of the bishop of Rome.” (Envoy Magazine, March/April,
1998) An examination of the historical records clearly reveals that this is an inaccurate
statement.

Donation of Constantine

The Donation of Constantine which was used by at least ten popes to justify their claims
to temporal power contains this very title:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 190 of 385
 “. . . as the Blessed Peter is seen to have been constituted vicar of the Son of God [Vicarius
Filii Dei in the original Latin] on the earth, so the Pontiffs who are the representatives of
that same chief of the apostles, should obtain from us and our empire the power of a
supremacy greater than the clemency of our earthly imperial serenity is seen to have
conceded to it.”

The Donation was purportedly a letter written by Constantine the Great to Pope Sylvester
I. In the letter Constantine supposedly gave temporal power to the Pope. We know for
certain that the Donation was in existence as early as the ninth century but was used
beginning in the eleventh century to justify the outrageous temporal claims of the papacy.

The authenticity of the Donation of Constantine was first questioned in the fifteenth
century with the advent of historical criticism. Nicholas of Cusa had serious reservations
about the Donation and around 1450 AD it was proved to be a forgery and a fraud by the
scholarly work of Laurentius Valla. Notably, the Vatican did not appreciate Valla’s work as
can be seen by the fact that the Office of the Inquisition officially placed his work on its
index of forbidden books in 1559.

Roman Catholic apologist, Patrick Madrid, has brushed aside this evidence by stating the
obvious, that the Donation of Constantine was a forgery. Madrid therefore concludes that
it cannot be used as an official and authorized statement of the Roman Catholic Church.

Though it is true that the Donation was a forgery, it is also beyond dispute that the
Donation was panned off as authentic and official by various popes and Roman Catholic
theologians for hundreds of years to sustain the temporal power of the papacy. Though a
forgery, it was used as an official document by these popes to sustain their claims to
temporal power. If they used it knowing full well that it was a forgery, then they were guilty
of deception. On the other hand, if they did not know that the Donation was a forgery, what
does this say about their infallibility?

It is significant that Gratian’s Decretals (published in 1140 AD and deemed official by the
Roman Catholic Church) incorporated the papal title from the Donation into Roman
Catholic canon law. Here are the words:

“Beatus Petrus in terris Vicarious Filii Dei esse uidetur constitutus.” (Aemilius Friedberg,
Corpus Iuris Canonici, column 342, emphasis mine)

Cardinal Edward Manning

In more recent times the title has been applied to the Pope by Cardinal Henry Edward
Manning in his book The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ (1862). In the first
statement, Manning indicts the Roman Catholic nations of Europe of his day for their failure
to defend the temporal power of the Pope:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 191 of 385
“’See this Catholic Church, this Church of God, feeble and weak, rejected even by the very
nations called Catholic. There is Catholic France, and Catholic Germany, and Catholic Italy
giving up this exploded figment of the temporal power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ.’ And so,
because the Church seems weak, and the Vicar of the Son of God is renewing the Passion of
his Master upon earth, therefore we are scandalized, therefore we turn our faces from him.”
(pp. 140, 141, emphasis mine)

After mentioning the growing temporal power of the papacy under Gregory I, Leo III,
Gregory VII and Alexander III Manning elevates the idea of the temporal power of the Pope
to the level of ‘a dogma,’ ‘a law of conscience,’ ‘an axiom of the reason,’ and a ‘theological
certainty’:

“So that I may say there never was a time when the temporal power of the Vicar of the Son of
God, though assailed as we see it, was more firmly rooted throughout the whole unity of the
Catholic Church and convictions of its members. . .” (p. 231)

Manning explained why European nations enjoyed stability in the past as compared with
the disarray of Europe in the times when he wrote:

“It was a dignified obedience to bow to the Vicar of the Son of God, and to remit the
arbitration of their griefs to one whom all wills consented to obey.” (p. 232, emphasis mine)

Additional Evidence

Lucii Ferraris in his prestigious encyclopedia, Prompta Bibliotheca, also applied the title
Vicarius Filii Dei to the Pope (1890 edition volume 6, p. 43, Column 2)

In his immensely popular book, Crossing the Threshold of Hope, p. 3, Pope John Paul II
explained what he understood to be the source of the power of his office:

“The leader of the Catholic Church is defined by the faith as the Vicar of Jesus Christ (and is
accepted as such by believers). The Pope is considered the man on earth who represents the
Son of God, who ‘takes the place’ of the Second Person of the omnipotent God of the Trinity.”

Notice that John Paul II not only affirmed that the Pope is the Vicar of Jesus Christ who
“represents the Son of God,” but he also explained what he meant by the word
“represents” when he said that he “takes the place” of the Second Person of the
omnipotent God of the Trinity.” The expression “takes the place” is the exact English
equivalent of the Latin word “Vicarius”

Even Dr. Bacchiocchi has candidly admitted that Vicarius Filii Dei has been an official papal
title for the course of many centuries:

‘Madrid's denial [that Vicarius Filii Dei has been an official papal title] is absolutely false.
We noted earlier that the papal claim to be the Vicarius Filii Dei is found in major Catholic
historical documents and is acknowledged even by Prof. Johannes Quasten, the leading


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 192 of 385
Catholic Patrologist in the world.” (Endtime Issues, Online Newsletter, “The Saga of the
Adventist Papal Tiara,” part 2)

The reference that Dr. Bacchiocchi makes to Professor Johannes Quasten is interesting.
There is a notarized affidavit in the General Conference archives signed by Conrad Stoehr
and Robert F. Correia where Dr. Quasten, in his own handwriting wrote: "The title Vicarius
Christi, as well as the title Vicarius Filii Dei is very common as the title of the Pope"

Samuele Bacchiocchi and the Tiara

But is this title presently inscribed on the papal tiara or miter? Or even more pointedly, was
it ever inscribed there?

Recently, Dr. Bacchiocchi has claimed that he had the opportunity to examine thirteen
extant papal tiaras (all used after the year 1800). He claims that only two of the tiara’s
have inscriptions and that neither one of them bears this title. To date there have been a
total of 266 popes. It must be recognized that 13 tiaras out of 266 (granted that all the
earlier popes probably did not wear the tiara) is a very small percentage indeed! Notably,
Dr. Bacchiocchi does not claim to have examined any papal miters. This is significant in the
light of the fact that, as we shall see later, Our Sunday Visitor claims that the title Vicarius
Filii Dei used to be on the miter.

But does the present absence of the inscription on the tiara even prove that it was never
there? Should it really surprise us that the title is not presently there? Wouldn’t we expect
this to be the case? Would the papacy want to display such incriminating evidence? Of
course not!

Well do I remember when I was a student at the Andrews University Theological Seminary
in the early 70’s that Dr. Bacchiocchi had just returned to the United States from the
Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. There was great fanfare when he exhibited his
regalia, his gold medal, his diplomas and his newly published dissertation on the change of
the Sabbath with the Roman Catholic imprimatur. I remember thinking: “This is either an
incredible miracle of God or it is too good to be true! How is it possible for a Seventh-day
Adventist to be the only non-Catholic to be accepted at the Pontifical Gregorian University
in over 400 years? How could he have been allowed to do a dissertation on the change of
the Sabbath? How could he have received the maximum academic honors and a medal from
the very hands of the pope?”

Well, recently we have been told by official Pontifical Gregorian University sources that Dr.
Bacchiocchi’s story was too good to be true! According to Dr. Barbara Bergami, the
General Secretary of the Pontifical Gregorian University, there is no record of Dr.
Bacchiocchi ever receiving the academic distinction of summa cum laude, of receiving a gold
medal from the Pope or of having his dissertation published in totto with the imprimatur.
The records have vanished from the Gregoriana!



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 193 of 385
Dr. Bacchiocchi provides all sorts of documentation to prove that he did indeed graduate
summa cum laude, that he did receive a medal and that his book did receive the imprimatur.
But how do we know that the evidence he provides is trustworthy? How can be we sure
that his medal and diplomas are genuine and not well crafted forgeries? Why shouldn’t we
accept the statements of the Roman Catholic Pontifical Gregorian University at face value?
In short, why should we believe Dr. Bacchiocchi rather than the Gregoriana?

Obviously I am playing devil’s advocate here to make a point. I personally do believe that
Dr. Bacchiocchi graduated summa cum laude, that he got a medal and that at least a portion
of his dissertation was published with the imprimatur. But this agonizing personal
experience should have taught Dr. Bacchiocchi a lesson about the expunging power of the
Roman Catholic papacy. His educational records have been either expunged or “lost”!

Dr. Bacchiocchi’s seems to want it both ways. On the one hand he complains: “The Papacy
‘lost’ my educational records because my works on the Sabbath were causing it great
damage.” But on the other hand, he finds it improbable that the Papacy could have ever
expunged or “lost” the title Vicarius Filii Dei from the papal tiara and/or miter because of
the damage it was causing the papacy!

Eye Witnesses?

There are eyewitnesses that claim to have seen the tiara at various papal ceremonies
inscribed with the title Vicarius Filii Dei. Were these witnesses lying? Were they seeing
visions? Did they have overactive imaginations? Why should Dr. Bacchiocchi impugn their
credibility and not that of the Roman Catholic Church? Is it because these individuals didn’t
have doctoral degrees and therefore in his view they do not meet the scholarly litmus test?

Why does Dr. Bacchiocchi accept the testimony of W. W. Prescott (who exhibited less than
full confidence in the Spirit of Prophecy at the 1913 Bible Conference), Charles T. Everson
(who claimed to have examined one papal tiara that was used in the coronation of Leo XIII
in 1836 and who did not say that the title had never been on the tiara but rather that it was
not on the tiara “at present”) and L.E. Froom (notorious for his selective and ecumenical
use of Ellen White in Questions on Doctrine) while he brushes aside the testimony of those
who claim to have seen the title on the tiara? What makes one group more trustworthy
than the other?

Dr. Bacchiocchi argues that if the Papacy found it necessary to expunge the title Vicarious
Filii Dei from the tiara or miter, it would stand to reason that they would also want to
expunge it from all historical documents where it appears. But this argument is weak. It
belies the fact that it is far more incriminating to have the title on the tiara for everyone
to see than it is to have a few references tucked away in the books of scholars and
intelligentsia that rarely, if ever, are seen by the layman in the pew. Even Roman Catholic
apologist, Patrick Madrid, did not know that the title was used in various Roman Catholic




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 194 of 385
sources until it was brought to his attention by an Adventist! If a professional apologist
didn’t know, how would a common layman in the pew know?

Roman Catholic Evidence

Ellen White has stated that the Papacy destroyed many incriminating records that
documented its horrific cruelty during the dark ages. Are we to expect less when it comes
to the papal tiara or miter?

“Rome endeavored also to destroy every record of her cruelty toward dissenters. Papal
councils decreed that books and writings containing such records should be committed to
the flames. Before the invention of printing, books were few in number, and in a form not
favorable for preservation; therefore there was little to prevent the Romanists from carrying
out their purpose.” GC, p. 61.

There is evidence, even from Roman Catholic sources, that the title was once on the papal
tiara or miter. In the November 15, 1914 edition of Our Sunday Visitor (the official organ of
the Archdiocese of Baltimore) the following question was addressed to the Bureau of
Information: “Is it true that the words of the Apocalypse in the 13th chapter, 18th verse refer
to the Pope?”

The answer was as follows:

“The words referred to are these ‘Here is wisdom. He that hath understanding, let him count
the number of the beast. For it is the number of a man: and the number of him is six hundred
sixty-six.’ The Title of the Pope in Rome is Vicarius Filii Dei. This is inscribed on his mitre;
and if you take the letters of his title which represent Latin numerals and add them together
they come to 666.” (emphasis is mine)

In the April 18, 1915 edition of Our Sunday Visitor this information was confirmed once
again. The question was: “What are the letters supposed to be in the Pope’s crown, and
what do they signify, if anything?”

The answer was explicit:

“The letters inscribed in the Pope’s mitre are these: Vicarius Filii Dei, which is the Latin for
the Vicar of the Son of God. Catholics hold that the church which is a visible society must
have a visible head. Christ, before His ascension into heaven, appointed St. Peter to act as His
representative. Upon the death of Peter the man who succeeded to the office of Peter as
Bishop of Rome, was recognized as the head of the Church. Hence to the Bishop of Rome, as
head of the Church, was given the title ‘Vicar of Christ.’”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 195 of 385
Expunging the Evidence

Roman Catholic apologist Patrick Madrid claims to have contacted Robert Lockwood, the
editor of Our Sunday Visitor about this 1915 issue and he was told that the entire issue
had been expunged from the archives (although I personally have a copy of the column).
This is an interesting admission. Even in modern times expunging is used as a method by
the Papacy to delete information that is incriminating!

It is true that on September 16, 1917 (and also again on August 3, 1941) Our Sunday
Visitor did an about face and totally changed its tune:

“The words Vicarius Filii Dei are not the name of the Pope; they do not even constitute his
official title.”

The question is: which of the two versions of Our Sunday Visitor are we to believe? Can we
really trust the word of an organization that has majored in deception throughout the
centuries?

It must be admitted that we cannot prove beyond any doubt at this time that the title
Vicarius Filii Dei was ever on the pope’s tiara or miter. The evidence we have at present is
mixed at best. Perhaps only when the judgment sits and the books are opened in God’s
heavenly tribunal will we be able to see whether the name was there or not. One thing is
crystal clear, however, and that is that the name Vicarius Filii Dei is an official title which
has been assumed by the popes and the name is in perfect accordance with their
blasphemous claims. It is important to remember that the prophecy of Revelation 13:18
does not require that the title or name of the beast be found on the papal crown or tiara.

Various other names and titles have been suggested as fulfillments for the name and
number of the beast of Revelation 13:18. Some have suggested dux cleri (head of the
clergy), lateinos (Latin man) or ludovicus (chief of the court of Rome). The problem with all
of these suggestions is that none of them is particularly blasphemous. But there is a name
which has been officially assumed by the bishops of Rome that is clearly and unmistakably
blasphemous: Vicarius Filii Dei.

Who is Vicarius Filii Dei?

The Bible makes it crystal clear that the Holy Spirit is the Vicar of the Son of God. Before
Jesus left He promised His disciples:

“And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another Helper, that He may abide with you
forever--the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees Him nor
knows Him; but you know Him, for He dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you
orphans; I will come to you.” (John 14:16-18).




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 196 of 385
Jesus made it very clear that the visible Head of the church (Jesus) would be in heaven
while the invisible Head of the church (the Holy Spirit) would take his place on earth.
Roman Catholic theology has changed this around. They affirm that the visible head of the
church (the Pope) is on earth while the invisible head (Jesus) is in heaven. Thus the popes
not only usurp the place of Jesus but they also usurp the place of the Holy Spirit! This is the
epitome of blasphemy!!

Vicarius Filii Dei and the Antichrist

Amazingly, the Greek word antichristos has the same basic meaning in Greek as does
Vicarius Filii Dei in Latin. Most people assume that the word antichrist means ‘one who is
against Christ.’ It is true that in Greek the preposition anti can mean ‘against.’ But it is
equally true that this preposition, when it is used as a prefix to a noun means ‘instead of,’ or
‘in place of.’ In classical Greek, for example, the word antibasileus means ‘one who
occupies the place of the king.’ In the New Testament, the name Herod Antipas means that
Herod ruled ‘in place of’ his father.’ (Revelation 2:13) The word antitype means ‘that which
takes the place of the type.’ Christ is spoken of as having given His life as a ransom in place
of (antilutron) all (I Timothy 2:6). Thus the word antichristos in Greek and Vicarius Filii Dei
in Latin bear a very similar meaning!

Though I disagree with Dave Hunt’s futuristic interpretation of the antichrist, I believe that
he has given an accurate description of what the Biblical antichrist will be like:

“While the Greek prefix ‘anti’ generally means ‘against’ or ‘opposed to,’ it can also mean ‘in the
place of’ or ‘a substitute for.’ The Antichrist will embody both meanings. He will oppose Christ
while pretending to be Christ . . . When the time has come for his ascension to power—it will
be in the midst of an unprecedented global crisis--he will be hailed as the world’s savior,
and so he will appear to be . . . Instead of a frontal assault against Christianity, the evil one
will pervert the church from within by posing as its founder. He will cunningly misrepresent
Christ while pretending to be Christ. And by that process of substitution he will undermine
and pervert all that Christ truly is. . . If the Antichrist will indeed pretend to be the Christ, then
his followers must be ‘Christians’! The church of that day will without dissenting voice, hail
him as its leader.” Dave Hunt, Global Peace, pp. 7-8, 45, 200. (Bold is mine and italics are
his)

Ellen White and the Number 666

In closing I would like to make a few remarks about the name of Ellen G. White. Roman
Catholic apologist Patrick Madrid (and others before him) has claimed that the name Ellen
Gould White also totals 666 (L+L+L+D+W+I). On the surface this appears persuasive;
however, there are several insurmountable problems with this view.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 197 of 385
First, a little cheating must take place in order for this identification to work out. The “W”
in White has to be converted into two V’s. Needless to say, this was never done in the Latin
manner of reckoning numbers. In fact, the “W” does not even exist in the Latin language!

Second, and more devastating, the name Ellen Gould White is not a blasphemous name.

Third, there is no justification for using the Latin number system for a name which is in
English. If Ellen White’s name was in Latin, then we would be justified in using the Latin
numbering system.

Finally, and most importantly, we must remember that the number 666 is the number of
the beast. Ellen White does not fit any of the other specifications of the beast. She arose
in the United States, not Rome, she did not uproot three kingdoms, she did not think to
change times and laws (rather she upheld the law including the Sabbath!), she did not
persecute the saints, she did not speak blasphemies against God, she did not rule for 1260
years (she lived a long life but not this long!), she did not exercise dominion over every
nation, kindred and tongue, she did not receive a deadly wound which was healed and the
whole world did not marvel after her. Even if the name Ellen Gould White totaled 666,
which it does not, the number is only one of the specifications of the beast and none of the
other characteristics of the beast fit Ellen White.

I once heard someone say: But Ellen White received a deadly wound when a classmate hit
her with a stone on the bridge of her nose when she was 9 years old and though her
doctors said she was going to die, she recovered from her wound! It never ceases to amaze
me to what lengths people will go in order to sustain their preconceived notions! There are
two glaring problems with this scenario. First of all, Ellen White was wounded while she
was a child but the beast was wounded at the end of its career. Second, Ellen White was
wounded with a stone while the beast was wounded with a sword! (Revelation 13:10, 14)

In the light of the Biblical and historical evidence that we have at our disposal, I believe that
it is not unreasonable to believe that the title Vicarius Filii Dei is an adequate explanation of
the number 666. This is an official title of the popes even though at present there is no way
of proving beyond any doubt that the title was on the tiara or the miter in times past. I
therefore agree with the Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary:

“Whether the inscription Vicarius Filii Dei appears on the tiara or mitre is really beside the
point. The title is admittedly applied to the pope, and that is sufficient for the purposes of this
prophecy.” Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, page 823-824

In 2007 Roman Catholic priest, Edward L. Beck was invited by Shawn Hannity to discuss
the meaning of the number 666. The interview is fascinating in the fact that Beck gave the
identical explanation of the number 666 as do some of the ablest scholars of the Seventh-
day Adventist church!! Here is the transcript of the interview where I have highlighted the
significant portions.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 198 of 385
Fox News Network Interview

SHOW: HANNITY'S AMERICA 9:30 PM EST
November 4, 2007 Sunday
110401cb.268
NEWS: International

(Note: EDWARD L. BECK, C.P., is a Roman Catholic priest of the Passionist Community. In
addition to conducting workshops nationally and internationally, Father Beck is an author
and develops mainstream television and film projects. He also is a commentator on
religious and faith issues for various media outlets. Yellow highlighting of one of his
responses is added.)

Beyond Belief: The Mysterious Nature of Three Numbers That Nobody Wants to Repeat;
Stay tuned as we return to "Hannity's America" right here on FOX News channel.

SEAN HANNITY, FOX HOST: Welcome back to "Hannity's America." 666, you have seen
these terrifying digits, but do you know what they stand for? Tonight, we look at the
demonic numbers in the "Beyond Belief" segment.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HANNITY (voice-over): 666, you have seen these numbers everywhere, road signs, bar
codes, tattoos, dates on the calendar, Hollywood films. For many, the number is nothing
short of terrifying. They believe it is the devil's number. Three digits that personify
unspeakable evil foreshadowing the end of time. Is 666 really all we have come to believe it
is?

FR. EDWARD L. BECK, C.P., AUTHOR, "SOUL PROVIDER": 666, because they say the beast
and the force of evil, a lot of people have equated that with the devil, because traditionally
Satan has been the force of evil.

HANNITY: In the final book of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation, it tells of
impending doom, the end of time when a great war between the forces of good and evil will
be fought. Ultimately, God will triumph, but the personification of evil comes at this time
and in the form of the Antichrist or the Beast, bearing the number 666. Revelation’s chapter
13, mentions that the people will receive the mark of the beast in their right hand or
forehead. The Bible is not clear what the mark will be. Many avoid speculation since the
Bible specifically doesn't give detailed information about the nature of this mark.

BECK: There's always caution when you speculate on what the Bible means because
everybody is going to interpret it in a different way. It's a religious imagery of poetry
almost that tries to explain a deeper truth about goodness and evil.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 199 of 385
HANNITY: For church followers, 6 is seen as representing that which is short of perfection
and a representation of sin. Repeated three times, such a number is made complete. It is
also argued that 666 might represent an unholy trinity. The Bible is full of 7's to symbolize
completeness. Six could symbolize the incomplete power of evil.

Why is 666 the number assigned to, quote, "the beast"?

BECK: In the scripture, God is related to the perfect number 7. In the Book of
Revelation, it says that the beast is man, the beast is human kind. We are 666. And
there's the potential for evil in all of us. We will always be less than 7.

HANNITY: Many use numerology to try to explain this diabolical number. For almost 2,000
years, people have been adding, subtracting, permeating and slicing numbers to come up
with why 666 and who the beast bearing the digits might be.

BECK: This evil may be the Roman emperor, Nero. Some say it referred to. If you put
Caesar, Nero and take the numerology of that name, the Roman numerals, it is 666. That is
a veiled way of talking about Nero.

HANNITY: Some have even linked the number to the holiest of Catholic institutions.

BECK: Actually, it was Pope John Paul II. If you look at his Latin name, Ioannes Paulus
Secundo, and you take the Roman numerals from that name, guess what they add up to?
666. If you take the Latin name that refers to all popes, Vicarius Filii Dei, which
means vicar of the Son of God, if you take the Roman numerals out of these, guess
what they add up to? 666.

HANNITY: Other numerical hypothesis argue that if you number the English alphabet, A
equals 100, B equals 101, C equals 102, and so on. Using that theory, Adolph Hitler equals
666. Even the worldwide web has been acquainted by some as the beast.

BECK: In Hebrew, there aren't characters for numbers they are letters. The letter W is VA,
which number equivalent is 6. So if you have worldwide web (www), it's 666. So some
would attribute some of our downfall, our modern down fall or decadence, if you will, to
the Internet.

HANNITY: There are no shortage of theories when it comes to the number 666 or what or
who it may represent. In fact, no consensus exists in the ecclesiastical world. We know is
that these three numbers have been fueled by centuries of human fear and fascination with
evil, between Hollywood movies that capitalize on our demonic exceptions and conspiracy
theorists who manipulate math and language to push people into believing the apocalypse
is finally upon us.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 200 of 385
But putting the crazy fringe theories aside and abandoning literal interpretations of the
Book of Revelation, perhaps this nefarious number that's evaded our every day vernacular
is meant to serve a bigger purpose.

BECK: The deeply important lesson of the Book of Revelation and the whole notion of 666
is that evil is a force. I think what this lesson is, from the Book of Revelation, is that good
will over come it, but we have to be vigilant about it.

HANNITY: So is 666 nothing more than a symbolic warning of evil in all of us? Or are the
numbers truly the embodiment of the devil himself or maybe the mark of the beast is just
"Beyond Belief."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 201 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 202 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


       LESSON #9 – THE BEAST, HIS IMAGE AND
         HIS NUMBER: THE OLD TESTAMENT
                   BACKGROUND

Connection between Daniel 2 and 3

      God had delineated in Daniel 2 the sequence of kingdoms that would arise
       between the days of Nebuchadnezzar and the second coming of Jesus
      Nebuchadnezzar did not like the scenario that God had presented and he attempted
       to change God’s prophetic scenario
      This idea came from the religious leaders (PK, pp. 504-505)
      The word “gold” in Daniel 2 and 3 links the chapters
      The word “image” is identical in both chapters
      The expression “set up” is repeatedly used in the chapter
      Remember that in Daniel 2 God had stated that He was going to “set up” his
       indestructible kingdom (3:1, 2, 3, 7, 12, 14, 15, 18)

Babylon was the ruling power in the world of the time (3:1)

“Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits and its width
six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.”

God’s people were captive in Babylon (Jeremiah 51:45)

"My people, go out of the midst of her! And let everyone deliver himself from the fierce anger
of the Lord.”

Nebuchadnezzar for a time lived as a beast (Daniel 4:16)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 203 of 385
“Let his heart be changed from that of a man, let him be given the heart of a beast, and let
seven times pass over him.”

Nebuchadnezzar set up an image in his honor. Repeatedly Daniel 3 quotes
Nebuchadnezzar using the expression ‘which I have set up’

Dimensions of the Image

The dimensions of the image were 60 x 6 (3:1)

“Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits and its
width six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.”

“Babylonian mathematics was based on the sexagesimal system, in which the basic counting
units were the numbers 6 and 60. (The sexagesimal system has been accepted universally for
the measurement of arcs and angles and for divisions of time.” Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation
of Jesus Christ, p. 417

      If what Herodotus says is correct, the image weighed 800 talents of gold which
       would be equivalent to over 30 tons (3:1).

      Sexagesimal system originated in Babylon (60 seconds, 60 minutes, 24 hours, 360
       days, 360 degrees).

      If we multiply 60 x 6 the total is 360 which was a very sacred number in Babylon.

      360 degrees and 360 days represent the full cycle of time and the full circle of
       space.

      Each of 36 gods of the pantheon ruled each over 10 degrees of space and 10
       degrees of time.

      The sum of the numbers 1-36 is 666 and the number 666 was known as “the great
       number of the sun.” All the gods were thus included in this one summary number.
       In Babylon the sun god was called Marduk. He was thought of as the absolute ruler
       of all time and all space.

      The Babylonian priestly system expressed this concept by wearing amulets or
       medallions around their necks.

      The medallions were made of pure gold because gold is the color of the sun. In fact
       the ancients called gold “the dew of the sun.” It is no coincidence that in Isaiah
       14:4 Babylon is called the golden kingdom and that in Daniel 2 Babylon is



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 204 of 385
      represented by the head of gold. The medallions or amulets were circular (like the
      sun) and had a hexagon within the amulet.

     On the obverse (front) side of the amulet there was a large square with 36
      smaller squares within. In each square there was a number from 1-36 and beneath
      the large square was the number 666.

     On the reverse side of the seal or amulet there was a raging lion with wings
      (yellow in color like the sun) whose mane is portrayed as the rays of the sun.
      Babylon is portrayed as a lion in Daniel 7 and also in sphinxes which were at the
      main entrances to the city.

     In astrology, Leo, the lion, rules over the hottest period of the year (July 23-
      August 22).

     The Romans acquired much of their religious system from Babylon but they
      established a different number system. They chose six letters from their Latin
      alphabet and gave each a numerical value. The sum total of all six numbers is 666.

     Thus the number 666 is to be identified with Babylon and with Rome (also called
      Babylon in I Peter 5:13).

     Thus those who worshipped the image would be honoring Babylon and
      worshiping the sun god whose number is 666.

The Primary Issue: Worship

     The question was who will you worship: the image or the true God (3:28)
      “Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-
      Nego, who sent His Angel and delivered His servants who trusted in Him, and they have
      frustrated the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they should not serve nor
      worship any god except their own God!”

     This word is used 10 times in the chapter (3:5-7, 10-12, 14, 15, 18, 28).

     The law of God is also involved, primarily the first table which has to do with
      worship to the true God.


     We worship God because He is the Creator (Psalm 95:6) and the sign of worship to
      the Creator is the Sabbath (Revelation 14:7).




      “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 205 of 385
There Was a Union of Church and State (3:2)

      Notice all the political rulers who were present in order of rank. All the civil
       powers of the Babylonian world were present there.

      The government was enforcing a religious decree. To not worship is treason
       against the government.

      If I have time, talk about the establishment clause and the free exercise clauses of
       the Constitution as revealed in Daniel 3 and Daniel 6.

Universal, Music and Death Decree

The decree to worship was universal (3:4).

Music played a significant role in connection with false worship (3:5, 7, 10, 15).

A death decree against those who do not worship the image of the beast (3:6, 11, 15, 19).

Remnant and Shaking

A faithful, insignificant remnant stood on the Lord’s side. If the king could eradicate them
his triumph would be complete (3:12).

The religious leaders accused the three young men to the civil power (2:2, 4, 5, 10, 12;
3:9-12).

There was a shaking in the Valley of Dura (Daniel 1:3).

      When Nebuchadnezzar took Daniel and his three friends captive he left Zedekiah (II
       Kings 24:14-17) to rule in Jerusalem.

      In the year 594 AD (Jeremiah 51:59) King Zedekiah made a trip to Babylon. It is
       inconceivable that he was not there.

Intimidation

Nebuchadnezzar attempted to intimidate the remnant who kept the commandments of God
and worshipped only Him (3:15)

      Three steps: Fascination, intimidation, annihilation
      Ellen White makes a very insightful remark. She says that the king spoke the
       words in the first part of Daniel 3:15 and then “with hand stretched upward in
       defiance” (Signs of the Times, May 6, 1897) he pronounced the last words of the
       verse.
The answer of the faithful remnant (Daniel 3:16-18)


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 206 of 385
The King’s Rage and Time of Trouble (Daniel 3:19)

      Time of trouble for the three young men (Daniel 3:20-23).
      Ellen White vividly describes the face of Nebuchadnezzar after the young men
       spoke:

       “Satanic attributes made his countenance appear as the countenance of a demon.”
       (4BC 1169).

      God would shortly answer this charge: “I will deliver them.” (husband/wife;
       sovereign/subject; body/head; shepherd/sheep).

      The same mistake that Pharaoh made at the Red Sea—stand still and see the
       salvation of the Lord. The Lord fights for Israel.
      They faced the beast, his image and the civil rulers without flinching. There was
       no human way to survive.

The Fiery Furnace and Deliverance
The furnace heated seven times hotter (3:19)

      The maximum heat. Seven represents totality.
      The furnace represents affliction by which God purifies his people (Isaiah 48:10;
       13:12; Job 23:10; Malachi 3:2, 3).
      The young men claimed the promise of Isaiah 43:2.
Their tormentors died instead (3:22).

Christ Himself stood up to deliver His faithful remnant in the midst of the time of trouble.

      Notice that the Son of God is the Angel (3:25, 28).
      They went through the tribulation but were shielded by divine power (3:24-27).
      Christ is the Hero, not the three young men!!

The key word in this passage is deliver which is used four times (3:15, 17, 28, 29).

      If you are with Him He will be with you.
      He requires full and complete allegiance not half-hearted service!
Principles for the End Time Application of Daniel 3

Literal Israel was literally captive in literal Babylon, the literal king behaves like a
literal beast, sets up a literal image, in a literal valley commanding everyone to literally
bow and worship it, literal Jews refuse to literally bowed and therefore were thrown into
a literal fiery furnace and are delivered from the literal flames.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 207 of 385
The power which will rule the world in the end-time will be Babylon (Revelation 17:1, 2,
5).

Babylon will present a false prophetic scenario wanting to establish a new world order
different than the new world order which Jesus will bring.
God’s people will once again be captive in Babylon (Revelation 18:4).

There will be a power described as the beast (Revelation 13:1-2).

The beast will raise up an image (Revelation 13:11-18).

The mark of the beast will be imposed by force.

      It is the opposite of the seal of God. The seal of God is the Sabbath so the mark of
       the beast must be a contrary day.

      Revelation 14:7 calls us to worship the creator in contrast to worshipping the
       beast and his image (Revelation 14:9-11)

       Ellen White remarks:
       “An idol sabbath has been set up, as the golden image was set up in the plains of
       Dura. And as Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, issued a decree that all who would
       not bow down and worship this image should be killed, so a proclamation will be
       made that all who will not reverence the Sunday institution will be punished with
       imprisonment and death.” Manuscript Releases, volume 14, p. 91

The number of the beast is 666:

      The beast has a name of blasphemy (Revelation 13:1)
      What is blasphemy? (Mark 2; John 10)
      Name has a number (Revelation 13:17)
      How do you get a number from a name?
      In ancient times numbers were written with letters
      What language do we employ?
      It must be in Latin because this is a Roman power (Revelation 13:2)
The image and mark must have something to do with the sun.

      Is it the same to worship the sun as it is to worship on Sunday?
      Vicarius Filii Dei and Antichrist have the same basic meaning: One who takes the
       place of Christ.

       Ellen White makes the parallel:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 208 of 385
       “History will be repeated. False religion will be exalted. The first day of the week, a
       common working day, possessing no sanctity whatever, will be set up as was the
       image at Babylon. All nations and tongues and peoples will be commanded to
       worship this spurious sabbath. This is Satan's plan to make of no account the day
       instituted by God, and given to the world as a memorial of creation. 7BC, p. 976

Once again worship will be the central issue and it will be worldwide (Revelation 13:4, 8,
12, 15; 14:7, 9).

“The decree enforcing the worship of this day is to go forth to all the world.” 7BC, p. 967

But the commandments will also be an issue, especially the first table of the law
(Revelation 12:17).

There will be a union of church and state (Revelation 17:2; 18:3).

A death decree will be proclaimed against God’s faithful remnant (Revelation 13:15).

“This argument [the one based on John 11:51ff] will appear conclusive; and a decree will
finally be issued against those who hallow the Sabbath of the fourth commandment,
denouncing them as deserving of the severest punishment and giving the people liberty, after
a certain time, to put them to death. Romanism in the Old World and apostate Protestantism
in the New will pursue a similar course toward those who honor all the divine precepts.” GC,
p. 615

“Fearful is the issue to which the world is to be brought. The powers of earth, uniting to war
against the commandments of God, will decree that "all, both small and great, rich and poor,
free and bond" (Revelation 13:16), shall conform to the customs of the church by the
observance of the false sabbath. All who refuse compliance will be visited with civil penalties,
and it will finally be declared that they are deserving of death.” GC, p. 604
The death decree will be universal (Revelation 3:15, 16)

“As the Sabbath has become the special point of controversy throughout Christendom, and
religious and secular authorities have combined to enforce the observance of the Sunday, the
persistent refusal of a small minority to yield to the popular demand will make them objects of
universal execration.” GC, p. 615

Music and external display will play a significant role in the end time (Revelation 18:22).

Satan knows what type of music to use to dull our spiritual senses and make us more
susceptible to his temptations.
“Many Protestants suppose that the Catholic religion is unattractive and that its worship is a
dull, meaningless round of ceremony. Here they mistake. While Romanism is based upon
deception, it is not a coarse and clumsy imposture. The religious service of the Roman Church
is a most impressive ceremonial. Its gorgeous display and solemn rites fascinate the senses of


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 209 of 385
the people and silence the voice of reason and of conscience. The eye is charmed. Magnificent
churches, imposing processions, golden altars, jeweled shrines, choice paintings, and exquisite
sculpture appeal to the love of beauty. The ear also is captivated. The music is unsurpassed.
The rich notes of the deep-toned organ, blending with the melody of many voices as it swells
through the lofty domes and pillared aisles of her grand cathedrals, cannot fail to impress the
mind with awe and reverence. This outward splendor, pomp, and ceremony, that only mocks
the longings of the sin-sick soul, is an evidence of inward corruption. The religion of Christ
needs not such attractions to recommend it. In the light shining from the cross, true
Christianity appears so pure and lovely that no external decorations can enhance its true
worth. It is the beauty of holiness, a meek and quiet spirit, which is of value with God. GC, pp.
566, 567

God will have a faithful remnant who will refuse to worship the image to the beast
(Revelation 12:17; 14:12; 15:2-4).

There will be a shaking among God’s people (Matthew 24:10-12).

“To stand in defense of truth and righteousness when the majority forsakes us, to fight the
battles of the Lord when champions are few--this will be our test. At this time, we must gather
warmth from the coldness of others, courage from their cowardice, and loyalty from their
treason. The nation will be on the side of the great rebel leader.” 5T, p. 136

“As the storm approaches, a large class who has professed faith in the third angel's
message, but has not been sanctified through obedience to the truth, abandon their
position and join the ranks of the opposition. By uniting with the world and partaking of its
spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the same light; and when the test is brought,
they are prepared to choose the easy, popular side. Men of talent and pleasing address, who
once rejoiced in the truth, employ their powers to deceive and mislead souls. They become the
most bitter enemies of their former brethren. When Sabbath keepers are brought before the
courts to answer for their faith, these apostates are the most efficient agents of Satan to
misrepresent and accuse them, and by false reports and insinuations to stir up the rulers
against them.” GC, p. 608

Religious leaders will be the foremost to accuse the remnant of God just like in the days of
Elijah, John the Baptist, Jesus and the church in the Middle Ages:

“Those who honor the Bible Sabbath will be denounced as enemies of law and order, as
breaking down the moral restraints of society, causing anarchy and corruption, and calling
down the judgments of God upon the earth. Their conscientious scruples will be pronounced
obstinacy, stubbornness, and contempt of authority. They will be accused of disaffection
toward the government. Ministers who deny the obligation of the divine law will present from
the pulpit the duty of yielding obedience to the civil authorities as ordained of God. In
legislative halls and courts of justice, commandment keepers will be misrepresented and




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 210 of 385
condemned. A false coloring will be given to their words; the worst construction will be put
upon their motives.” GC, p. 592

“As the controversy extends into new fields and the minds of the people are called to God's
downtrodden law, Satan is astir. The power attending the message will only madden those
who oppose it. The clergy will put forth almost superhuman efforts to shut away the light lest
it should shine upon their flocks. By every means at their command they will endeavor to
suppress the discussion of these vital questions.” GC, p. 607

Satan will manifest his wrath (Revelation 12:17)

There will be a similar question as was asked by Nebuchadnezzar (Revelation 13:3, 4)

There will be a severe time of trouble and God’s people will appear doomed:

      Daniel 11 has the sequence: King of the north goes out to annihilate many then
       Michael stands up to defend his people, then they are delivered.

       “He numbers the world as his subjects; but the little company who keep the
       commandments of God are resisting his supremacy. If he could blot them from the
       earth, his triumph would be complete.” GC, p. 618
The fiery furnace is the seven last plagues where the totality of God’s wrath is to be
poured out. The wicked will be destroyed but not the righteous:

“Their affliction is great, the flames of the furnace seem about to consume them; but the
Refiner will bring them forth as gold tried in the fire. God's love for His children during the
period of their severest trial is as strong and tender as in the days of their sunniest prosperity;
but it is needful for them to be placed in the furnace of fire; their earthliness must be
consumed, that the image of Christ may be perfectly reflected.” GC, p. 621

Jesus will personally intervene to deliver His people

“When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor the law of
God, there will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for their destruction. As the
time appointed in the decree draws near, the people will conspire to root out the hated sect. It
will be determined to strike in one night a decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the voice
of dissent and reproof. The people of God--some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary
retreats in the forests and the mountains--still plead for divine protection, while in every
quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing for the work
of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of Israel will interpose for the
deliverance of His chosen.” GC, p. 635




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 211 of 385
God will demand unswerving loyalty:

“The season of distress before God's people will call for a faith that will not falter. His children
must make it manifest that He is the only object of their worship, and that no consideration,
not even that of life itself, can induce them to make the least concession to false worship. To
the loyal heart the commands of sinful, finite men will sink into insignificance beside the word
of the eternal God. Truth will be obeyed though the result be imprisonment or exile or death.
PK, pp. 512, 513

A fireproof character

      Isaiah 33:14-16. We must have a sterling character. Be faithful in the small things
       (Luke 16:10; Jeremiah 12:5)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 212 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


       LESSON #10 – THE MARK OF THE BEAST

Introduction

As we begin, let’s imagine throwing a stone into a lake causing three ripples—larger,
smaller and smallest. The smallest ripple broadens into a large one and the larger into the
largest. Now I want you to imagine three concentric circles:

      The Ten Commandments would be the largest circle
      The first table of the law would be the medium circle
      One specific commandment in the first table would be the smallest circle

The Largest Circle

Ripple 1: The largest circle represents the final conflict over the Law of God.

Point #1: At the very end Satan hates the commandments of God.

Revelation 12:17:

“And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the rest of her
offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.”

Point #2: God’s people at the end will have a seal on their foreheads and it is the law that
is written on the mind and in the heart.

Revelation 7:3:

“Do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees till we have sealed the servants of our God on
their foreheads."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 213 of 385
Hebrews 8:10:

“For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the
Lord: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God,
and they shall be My people.”

Point #3: It is the law that is sealed among God’s disciples

Isaiah 8:16:

“Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.”

Point #4: Those who have the seal of God depart from iniquity. It is the Law that defines
good and evil (Ecclesiastes 12:13 where the law is linked with good and evil).

Matthew 7:23 and Luke 13:27 are parallel verses. But while Matthew 7:23 uses the word
anomias (lawlessness) Luke 13:27 uses the word adikia. Even in English sometimes when
you add an ‘a’ at the beginning of a noun it means the opposite of what the word means
without the ‘a.’ For example, the word amorphous.

II Timothy 2:19:

“Nevertheless the solid foundation of God stands, having this seal: "The Lord knows those who
are His," and, "Let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity [adikia]."

Matthew 7:23:

“And then I will declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from Me, you who practice
lawlessness [anomias]!'”

Note: The word anomias is translated ‘transgression of the law’ in First John 3:4.

Luke 13:27:

“But He will say, ‘I tell you I do not know you, where you are from. Depart from Me, all you
workers of iniquity [adikia].’”

Point #5: A comparison between Revelation 14:9-11 and 14:12 reveals that there is a
contrast between those who worship the beast and those who keep the commandments of
God.

Revelation 14:11:

“And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night,
who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 214 of 385
Revelation 14:12:

“Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and
the faith of Jesus.”

The Smaller Circle: Conflict Over the First Table of the Law

Point #1: Deuteronomy 6:4 summarizes the first table of the law (the first four
commandments) and then verses 5-8 command Israel to write them on the forehead and
the hand.

Deuteronomy 6:4:

"Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one! 5 You shall love the Lord your God with all
your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength [summary of the first table]. 6 "And
these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. 7 You shall teach them
diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk
by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 8 You shall bind them as a sign on your
hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.”

Point #2: The issue at the end time has to do with worship (Daniel 3 [11 times]). The last
six commandments have to do with the horizontal relationships between human beings
while the first four commandments describe their vertical relationship with God

Revelation 13:4:

“So they worshiped the dragon who gave authority to the beast; and they worshiped the
beast, saying: "Who is like the beast? Who is able to make war with him?"

Revelation 13:8, 12, 15:

“All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written in the Book
of Life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. 12 And he exercises all the
authority of the first beast in his presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell in it to
worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. 15 He was granted power to give
breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as
many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed.”

Revelation 14:9, 11:

“Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice: "If anyone worships the beast
and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand. . . and they have no rest
day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his
name."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 215 of 385
Third Point: Chapter 13 speaks of false worship to the beast and his image and receiving
the mark. In contrast, Chapter 14:6, 7 commands God’s people to worship God the
Creator. If a person does not worship the Creator, he will end up worshiping the beast.

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to
preach to those who dwell on the earth —to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people—7 saying
with a loud voice: "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come;
and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water."

      Beast is worshipped [first commandment] (Revelation 13:4)
      Image is worshiped [second commandment] (Revelation 13:14)
      Name is blasphemed [third commandment] (Revelation 13:6)
      Attack on the Creator [fourth commandment] (Revelation 14:7 with 14:9)

The Smallest Circle: An Attack on the Fourth Commandment

First Point: Testimony of Scripture: We worship God because He is our Creator and the
memorial sign of the Creator is the Sabbath

Psalm 95:6:

“Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the Lord our Maker.”

Nehemiah 9:6:

“You alone are the Lord. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens with all their host,
the earth and everything on it, the seas and all that is in them, and You preserve them all. The
host of heaven worships You.”

Revelation 14:6, 7 calls upon us to worship the Creator and strongly alludes to the
Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8-11and the creation story in Genesis 2:2, 3.

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to
preach to those who dwell on the earth — to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people—7 saying
with a loud voice: "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come;
and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water."

Exodus 20:11:

“For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and
rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.”

All flesh will come to worship on the Sabbath because God created a new heavens and a
new earth.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 216 of 385
Isaiah 66:22, 23:

"For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make shall remain before Me," says
the Lord, "So shall your descendants and your name remain. 23 And it shall come to pass that
from one New Moon to another and from one Sabbath to another all flesh shall come to
worship before Me," says the Lord.”

Genesis 2:2, 3: God’s placed His signature on creation week by resting on the Sabbath.
The motivation clause in the fourth commandment explains that the Sabbath identifies who
made the world and everything in it.

Describe the artist and how he signs the linen at the end of his work. It identifies the
artist.

Genesis 2:2, 3:

“And on the seventh day God ended His work which He had done, and He rested on the
seventh day from all His work which He had done. 3 Then God blessed the seventh day and
sanctified it, because in it He rested from all His work which God had created and made.”

Did God bless and sanctify the Sabbath for Himself? God is the fountain of all blessing
and he is the personification of all holiness

In the Bible the words “sign” and “seal” are used interchangeably.

Romans 4:11:

“And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he
had while still uncircumcised. . .”

In Exodus 31:17 the Sabbath is described as a sign between God and Israel

Exodus 31:17:

“It is a sign between Me and the children of Israel forever; for [because] in six days the Lord
made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.'"

Ezekiel 20:12:

 “. . . hallow My Sabbaths, and they will be a sign between Me and you, that you may know
that I am the Lord your God.”

Ezekiel 8:16, 17 is in contrast to Ezekiel 9:4

      The greatest abomination was that the religious leaders were worshiping the sun
       toward the east.
      In contrast were those who sighed and cried because of those abominations
       received the seal on their forehead.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 217 of 385
      Jerusalem was destroyed because the Sabbath was desecrated (made unholy).

Ezekiel 8:16, 17:

“So He brought me into the inner court of the Lord's house [among God’s own people];
and there, at the door of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar, were about
twenty-five men [the leaders of the people] with their backs toward the temple of the Lord
and their faces toward the east, and they were worshiping the sun toward the east. 17
And He said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it a trivial thing to the house of Judah
to commit the abominations [key word in Revelation 17] which they commit here? For they
have filled the land with violence; then they have returned to provoke Me to anger [God’s
wrath in Revelation], indeed they put the branch to their nose.”

Ezekiel 9:4:

“. . . and the Lord said to him, "Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of
Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and cry over all the
abominations that are done within it."

Jeremiah 17:27:

"But if you will not heed Me to hallow the Sabbath day, such as not carrying a burden when
entering the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it
shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched."'"

      Revelation picks up on this in Chapter 7 and chapter 13:16, 17 with 14:1 where
       the contrast is once again seen between those who have the seal of God and those
       who have the mark of the beast.

      How Sunday came into the Christian church from Paganism through Constantine.

      It is the same day of the sun as in Ezekiel. Is it the same to worship the sun as to
       worship on the day of the sun?

“The seal of God's law is found in the fourth commandment. This only, of all the ten, brings to
view both the name and the title of the Lawgiver. It declares Him to be the Creator of the
heavens and the earth, and thus shows His claim to reverence and worship above all others.
Aside from this precept, there is nothing in the Decalogue to show by whose authority the law
is given. When the Sabbath was changed by the papal power, the seal was taken from the
law. The disciples of Jesus are called upon to restore it by exalting the Sabbath of the fourth
commandment to its rightful position as the Creator's memorial and the sign of His
authority.” GC, p. 452




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 218 of 385
Second Point: The Testimony of Analogy

The presidential seal of the United States contains three elements: Name, office,
territory.

“The fourth commandment is the only one of all the ten in which are found both the name
and the title of the Lawgiver. It is the only one that shows by whose authority [the creator]
the law is given. Thus it contains the seal of God, affixed to His law as evidence of its
authenticity and binding force.” PP, p. 307

Third Point: The Testimony of Archeology

Characteristics of the Middle Eastern seals at Ugarit:

      They were covenants between a sovereign and vassal.
      They were written on tablets of clay.
      The tablets were written on both sides.
      The seal was in the middle of the tablet.
      The seal contained the name, title and territory of the sovereign king.
The Ten Commandments given in the same way that ancient covenants were given:

Deuteronomy 4:13: The Ten Commandments were the covenant.

“So He declared to you His covenant which He commanded you to perform, the Ten
Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone.”

Deuteronomy 4:13: The Ten Commandments were written on tables of stone.

“So He declared to you His that He commanded you to perform, the Ten Commandments; and
He wrote them on two tablets of stone.”

Exodus 32:15, 16: The Ten Commandments were written on both sides.

“And Moses turned and went down from the mountain, and the two tablets of the Testimony
were in his hand. The tablets were written on both sides; on the one side and on the other
they were written. 16 Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing
of God engraved on the tablets.”

Exodus 20:8-11: The Fourth Commandment contains the seal.

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
10 but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work: you, nor
your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle,
nor your stranger who is within your gates, for in six days the Lord [name] made [office]
the heavens and the earth, the sea [territory], and all that is in them, and rested the
seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 219 of 385
Fourth Point: The Testimony of Prophecy and History

The little horn thought that it could change the Law. We have already identified the little
horn or the beast as the Roman Catholic papacy. The question is: Does the Papacy claim
to have changed God’s holy law?

Daniel 7:25:

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most
High and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.”

John Gilmary Shea (1824-1892) who was an important Roman Catholic historian of his
time:

“For ages all Christian nations looked to the Catholic Church, and, as we have seen, the
various states enforced by law her ordinances as to worship and cessation of labor on
Sunday. Protestantism, in discarding the authority of the Church, has no good reason for its
Sunday theory, and ought logically, to keep Saturday as the Sabbath. The State in passing
laws for the due Sanctification of Sunday, is unwittingly acknowledging the authority
of the Catholic Church, and carrying out more or less faithfully its prescription. The Sunday
as a day of the week set apart for the obligatory public worship of Almighty God is purely a
creation of the Catholic Church." John Gilmary Shea (who was an important Roman
Catholic historian of his time), in The American Catholic Quarterly Review, January 1883, p.
139

Our Sunday Visitor, perhaps the most important and influential Roman Catholic journal in
the United States:

"Protestants . . . accept Sunday rather than Saturday as the day for public worship after the
Catholic Church made the change . . . But the Protestant mind does not seem to realize that
in accepting the Bible, in observing the Sunday, they are accepting the authority of the
spokesman for the church, the Pope." Our Sunday Visitor, Feb. 5, 1950

Louis G. Segur (1820-1881) who was a French Roman Catholic prelate and apologist, and
later a diplomatic and judicial official at Rome:

"Question: What Bible authority is there for changing the Sabbath from the seventh to the
first day of the week? Who gave the Pope the authority to change a command of God?"
Answer: It was the Catholic Church which, by the authority of Jesus Christ, has transferred
this rest to the Sunday. Thus the observance of Sunday by the Protestants is an homage they
pay, in spite of themselves, to the authority of the [Catholic] Church." Monsignor Louis
Segur, Plain Talk About the Protestantism of Today, 1868, p. 213




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 220 of 385
The Catholic Encyclopedia:

"Question: What is the Third Commandment? [the fourth commandment in Protestant
Bibles, because the Roman Catholic Church removed the Second Commandment--
Exodus20:4-6] "Answer: The Third Commandment is: ‘Remember that thou keep holy the
Sabbath day." Question: Which is the Sabbath day?’ Answer: Saturday is the Sabbath day."
Question: Why do we observe Sunday instead of Saturday?" Answer: The Catholic Church,
after changing the day of rest from Saturday, the seventh day of the week, to Sunday, the
first day, made the third commandment refer to Sunday as the day to be kept as the Lord's
Day." Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 4, p. 153.

Priest Thomas Enright, CSSR, who was for many years the president of Redemptorist
College in Kansas City, Missouri in a lecture at Hartford, Kansas on February 18, 1884:

"Prove to me from the Bible alone that I am bound to keep Sunday holy. There is no such law
in the Bible. It is a law of the holy Catholic Church alone. The Bible says 'Remember the
Sabbath day to keep it holy.' The Catholic Church says: No. By my divine power I abolish
the Sabbath day and command you to keep holy the first day of the week. And lo! The entire
civilized world bows down in reverent obedience to the command of the Holy Catholic
Church." Printed in The Hartford Kansas Weekly Call, February 22, 1884, and the American
Sentinel, a New York Roman Catholic journal in June 1893, page 173

From the office of James Cardinal Gibbons of Baltimore:

"Of course the Catholic Church claims that the change was her act . . . AND THE ACT IS A
MARK of her ecclesiastical power." From the office of Cardinal Gibbons, through Chancellor
H.F. Thomas, November 11, 1895

Roman Catholic theologian Henry T. Cafferata:

“A word about Sunday. God said: ‘Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath day!’ The
Sabbath was Saturday, not Sunday; why, then, do we keep Sunday holy instead of Saturday?
The Church altered the observance of the Sabbath to the observance of Sunday. . .
Protestants who say that they go by the Bible and the Bible only, and that they do not believe
anything that is not in the Bible, must be rather puzzled by the keeping of Sunday when God
distinctly said, ‘Keep holy the Sabbath day.’ The word Sunday does not come anywhere in the
Bible so, without knowing it, they are obeying the authority of the Catholic Church.” Henry
T. Cafferata, The Catechism Simply Explained (London: Burns Oates & Washbourne Ltd.,
1938), p. 89

But someone might object: Doesn’t the Apostle Paul tell us that the seal of God is the Holy
Spirit? How do you reconcile this with the idea that the Sabbath is God’s seal? This will be
the subject of our next study.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 221 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 222 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


 LESSON #11 – THE SEAL OF THE LIVING GOD

Ellen White and the Seal of God

Since early in our history, the Seventh-day Adventist Church has consistently taught that
the Seal of God is the Sabbath. As far as we know, the first person to discover this in
scripture was Captain Joseph Bates who in 1846 published a booklet titled The Seventh-
day Sabbath a Perpetual Sign.

With the passing of time, Ellen White came to agree with Bates and she unequivocally
and repeatedly identified the Sabbath as the Seal of God. Notice the following examples:

“The Sabbath was placed in the Decalogue as the seal of the living God, pointing out the Law-
giver, and making known his right to rule. It was a sign between God and his people, a test of
their loyalty to him.” Signs of the Times, May 13, 1886

“The fourth commandment is the only one of all the ten in which are found both the name and
the title of the Lawgiver. It is the only one that shows by whose authority the law is given.
Thus it contains the seal of God, affixed to His law as evidence of its authenticity and binding
force.” PP, p. 307

“The Sabbath of the fourth commandment is the seal of the living God. It points to God as
the Creator, and is the sign of His rightful authority over the beings He has made.” Signs of
the Times, November 1, 1899

“The sign or seal of God is the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath, and the Lord's
memorial of his work of creation.” Special Testimony to Battle Creek, 1898, p. 6

“The truth in regard to the Sabbath of the Lord is to be proclaimed. The seventh-day is to be
shown to be the seal of the living God.” Manuscript Releases, volume 4, p. 425




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 223 of 385
Yet there appears to be a discrepancy between the Bible and Ellen White on this topic. The
Bible affirms that the seal of God is the Holy Spirit. Why, then, does Ellen White affirm that
the Sabbath is the seal?

The Bible: The Seal is the Internal Work of the Holy Spirit

Ephesians 1:13-14

“In Him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation; in
whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the
guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise
of His glory.”

Ephesians 4:30

“And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of
redemption.”

2 Corinthians 1:21, 22

“Now He who establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us is God, who also has
sealed us and given us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.”

Solving the Apparent Discrepancy

Is there really a contradiction between the Bible and Ellen G. White on what constitutes
the Seal of God? In this study we shall find that Ellen White and the Bible are describing
two different sides of one reality. The Bible is describing the invisible, internal work of
the Holy Spirit while Ellen White is describing the external, visible manifestation of that
very work.

The Example of Circumcision

In order to better understand the relationship between the internal work of the Holy Spirit
and the Sabbath, let’s take the analogous case of circumcision.

The external act:

Leviticus 12:3: God explicitly commanded the external act of circumcision.

“And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.”

Genesis 17:14: The external sign was of great importance.

“And the uncircumcised male child, who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that
person shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 224 of 385
In Exodus 4:24-26 we even find that this rite was of such great importance that God
threatened to kill Moses for the failure to circumcise his son.

The deeper spiritual meaning:

Yet circumcision had a far deeper meaning than the literal removal of the flesh of the
foreskin. We find this deeper meaning exemplified in the experience of Abraham.

Genesis 15:6: God promised Abraham a son from his own loins when he was about 84
years old. Abraham trusted God and it was accounted to him for righteousness:

“And he believed in the Lord; and He counted it to him for righteousness.”

According to Genesis 17:24 about fifteen years after Abraham was justified by faith he
was circumcised. He was 99 years old at this time.

The crucial question is this: Did the external act of circumcision save or justify Abraham?
In the days of the apostle Paul, the Jews made external circumcision the litmus test
salvation and belonging to God’s people. The external sign was considered all
important. Notice how Paul underlines the importance of the external act while at the
same time underlining its deep spiritual meaning:

Romans 4:9, 10: According to Paul, Abraham was justified by faith when he was 84 years
old!

Romans 4:11-12: Circumcision when he was 99 years old was the external, visible sign
of justification.

“And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he
had while still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all those who believe, though
they are uncircumcised, that righteousness might be imputed to them also, 12 and the father
of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps
of the faith which our father Abraham had while still uncircumcised.”

Significantly, this deeper dimension of circumcision was already found in the Old
Testament:

Deuteronomy 30:6: External sign of an internal experience

“And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants, to love
the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul that you may live.”

Deuteronomy 10:16-17: External sign of an internal experience.

“Therefore circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and be stiff-necked no longer.”

The Apostle Paul was merely confirming what was already taught in the Old Testament:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 225 of 385
Philippians 3:3:

“For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have
no confidence in the flesh”.

Romans 2:28-29

“For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the
flesh; 29 but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the Spirit,
not in the letter; whose praise is not from men but from God.”

Point of Clarification: At this juncture, a point of clarification is needed:

      Circumcision was clearly established as a Jewish institution.
      It was established after sin.
      In the New Testament it was clearly replaced by baptism.
      According to the explicit teaching of the Jerusalem Council its observance is no
       longer required.

Colossians 2:11, 12:

“In Him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off
the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, 12 buried with Him in
baptism, in which you also were raised with Him through faith in the working of God, who
raised Him from the dead.”

The Sabbath is in contrast to this:

      It was established before sin and it part of God’s original plan.
      It was established for all people.
      There is no indication in the New Testament that it was replaced.

The Example of Baptism

As we have seen in the New Testament, baptism takes the place of circumcision
(Colossians 2:11-13). Is the external act of baptism necessary and important or is it
simply enough to accept Jesus in your heart?

The New Testament makes the external rite of baptism a condition for salvation. But
when we carefully read the Bible texts on baptism we see that the external ceremony,
though very important, is not sufficient without the internal work of the Holy Spirit:

Mark 16:15-17: A person must first believe in order for baptism to be valid:

“And He said to them, "Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. 16 He
who [1] believes and is [2] baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be
condemned.”


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 226 of 385
1 Peter 3:21-22

“There is also an antitype which now saves us — baptism (not the removal of the filth of the
flesh [external], but the answer of a good conscience toward God [internal]), through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ.”

Ellen White concurs with the Bible testimony. She clearly teaches that the external rite of
baptism is indispensable but is worthless without the internal work of the Holy Spirit:

“Christ made baptism the entrance to His spiritual kingdom. He made this a positive
condition with which all must comply who wish to be acknowledged as under the authority
of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Those who receive the ordinance of baptism
thereby make a public declaration that they have renounced [before baptism] the world,
and have become [before baptism] members of the royal family, children of the heavenly
King.” Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 6, p. 1075

Concerning the words that the Father spoke to Jesus at His baptism, we are told:

“Let those who received the imprint of God by baptism heed these words, remembering that
upon them the Lord has placed His signature, declaring them to be His sons and daughters.
The Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, powers infinite and omniscient, receive those who
truly enter into covenant relation with God. They are present at every baptism, to receive the
candidates who have renounced the world and have received Christ into the soul temple.
These candidates have entered into the family of God, and their names are inscribed in the
Lamb's book of life.” God’s Amazing Grace, p. 143

“The new birth is a rare experience in this age of the world. This is the reason why there are
so many perplexities in the churches. Many, so many, who assume the name of Christ are
unsanctified and unholy. They have been baptized, but they were buried alive. Self did not
die, and therefore they did not rise to newness of life in Christ (MS 148, 1897).” The
Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 6, p. 1075

“It is the grace of Christ that gives life to the soul. Apart from Christ, baptism, like any other
service, is a worthless form.” The Desire of Ages, p. 181

“Baptism does not make children Christians; neither does it convert them; it is but an
outward sign, showing that they are sensible that they should be children of God by
acknowledging that they believe in Jesus Christ as their Savior and will henceforth live for
Christ.” CG, p. 499

The Example of Communion

Let’s take another example, Communion. Partaking of the bread and grape juice at
Communion is only valid when they are partaken of in faith:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 227 of 385
“The gift of Christ to the marriage feast was a symbol. The water represented baptism into
His death; the wine, the shedding of His blood for the sins of the world. The water to fill the
jars was brought by human hands, but the word of Christ alone could impart to it life-giving
virtue. So with the rites which point to the Savior's death. It is only by the power of Christ,
working through faith, that they have efficacy to nourish the soul.” DA, pp. 148, 149

God Commands Sabbath Observance

God commands us to keep the Sabbath outwardly by abstaining from work on it. God
commanded the observance of a specific, external day and prescribed exactly how to
keep it:

Exodus 20:8-11

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
10 but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work: you,
nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your
cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. 11 For in six days the Lord made the
heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore
the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.”

The Deeper Dimension of the Sabbath

The external observance of the Sabbath is required by God but it is only acceptable as
an external sign of an internal relationship.

Although Deuteronomy 6:6-8 is not dealing specifically with the Sabbath, it will help us
understand the importance of harmony between the internal and the external:

"And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart [in the heart before
they are placed on the hand, the forehead and the doorposts]. 7 You shall teach them
[after they are in the heart] diligently to your children, and shall talk of them [after they
are in the heart] when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down,
and when you rise up. 8 You shall bind them as a sign [external behavior is to reveal that
they are in the heart first] on your hand [they should guide what you do], and they shall
be as frontlets between your eyes [they should guide what you think]. 9 You shall write them
on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.”

The Jews of Christ’s day were very strict in literally and externally fulfilling the
commands in these verses but they totally missed the deep spiritual meaning:

“These words have a deep meaning. As the word of God is meditated upon and practiced, the
whole man will be ennobled. In righteous and merciful dealing, the hands will reveal, as a
signet, the principles of God's law. They will be kept clean from bribes, and from all that is
corrupt and deceptive. They will be active in works of love and compassion. The eyes, directed



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 228 of 385
toward a noble purpose, will be clear and true. The expressive countenance, the speaking eye,
will testify to the blameless character of him who loves and honors the word of God. But by the
Jews of Christ's day all this was undiscerned. The command given to Moses was construed into
a direction that the precepts of Scripture should be worn upon the person. They were
accordingly written upon strips of parchment, and bound in a conspicuous manner about
the head and wrists. But this did not cause the law of God to take a firmer hold of the mind
and heart. These parchments were worn merely as badges, to attract attention. They were
thought to give the wearers an air of devotion which would command the reverence of the
people.” DA pp. 612, 613

The Jews did the same in the observance of the Sabbath. They were meticulously careful to
obey the very letter of the Sabbath commandment, and then some, but totally lost its deep
spiritual meaning. The Sabbath was not an end in itself but rather an external sign of
internal sanctification:

Exodus 31:12-13

“And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 13 "Speak also to the children of Israel, saying: 'Surely
My Sabbaths you shall keep, for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations,
that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you.”

Ezekiel 20:12, 20

“Moreover I also gave them My Sabbaths, to be a sign between them and Me, that they might
know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them. 20 hallow My Sabbaths, and they will be a
sign between Me and you, that you may know that I am the Lord your God.'

The Sabbath did not confer holiness on Israel but rather was an external sign that they
had been made holy or set apart among all peoples for the Lord. Expressed another way,
the external observance of the Sabbath did not make Israel holy but rather was to
announce that God had already made them holy by setting them apart for Himself. The
external observance of the Sabbath was an announcement to the world that they had an
internal holy relationship with their Creator.

The Creator of the Internal Relationship

 And who is it that creates in us this internal relationship with the Lord? Who writes the
law in the heart so that it is exhibited in the life? Who is it that makes our hearts holy? Of
course it is the Holy Spirit. It was the Spirit that wrote the Ten Commandments on tables
of stone and writes them on the human heart. The Ten Commandments were written by
the finger of God and the finger of God is the Holy Spirit:

      Matthew 12:28: Jesus cast out demons by the Spirit of God.
      Luke 11:20: Jesus cast out demons by the finger of God and the Ten
       Commandments were written by the finger of God.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 229 of 385
2 Thessalonians 2:13:

“But we are bound to give thanks to God always for you, brethren beloved by the Lord,
because God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit
and belief in the truth.”

The Holy Spirit’s sword is the Word of God. Observance of the Sabbath is an external sign
that our hearts have been made holy by the internal work of the Holy Spirit.

John 17:17: We are sanctified by the truth.

“Sanctify them by Your truth. Your word is truth.”

John 16:13: The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of Truth.

“However, when He, the Spirit of truth, has come, He will guide you into all truth; for He will
not speak on His own authority, but whatever He hears He will speak; and He will tell you
things to come.”

Ezekiel 36:26, 27

“I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will take the heart of stone out
of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. 27 I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to
walk in My statutes, and you will keep My judgments and do them.”

The wind is invisible to human eyes but its effects can be seen. So the work of the Holy
Spirit on the human heart is unseen but the visible effect can be seen in the observance of
the holy Sabbath.

Ellen White says that the Holy Spirit is the sealing agent:

“Would you impress the seal to obtain a clear impression upon the wax, you do not dash it
on by a violent action, but you place the seal carefully and firmly and press it down until the
wax receives the mold. Just so the Lord is dealing with our souls . . . Not now and then, but
constantly the new life is implanted by the Holy Spirit after Christ's likeness.” In Heavenly
Places, p. 66

“As wax takes the impression of the seal, so the soul is to take the impression of the Spirit
of God and retain the image of Christ.” 1SM, p. 336

Ellen White on the Internal and External Meaning of the Sabbath

Contrary to what many detractors believe, Ellen White did not teach that Sabbath
observance is an end in itself. Its observance does not confer holiness nor does it earn us
salvation.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 230 of 385
She has several statements where she explains that the Sabbath is an outward sign of an
inward experience produced by the Holy Spirit:

“Pointing to God as the Maker of the heavens and the earth, it [the Sabbath] distinguishes the
true God from all false gods. All who keep the seventh day signify by this act that they are
worshipers of Jehovah. Thus the Sabbath is the [visible] sign of man's allegiance to God as
long as there are any upon the earth to serve Him.” PP, p. 307

“The Sabbath will be the great test of loyalty, for it is the point of truth especially
controverted. When the final test shall be brought to bear upon men, then the line of
distinction will be drawn between those who serve God and those who serve Him not. While
the observance of the false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state, contrary to the
fourth commandment, will be an avowal of allegiance [just like your vow of allegiance to
the United States is exhibited by your pledge of allegiance to the flag] to a power that
is in opposition to God, the keeping of the true Sabbath, in obedience to God's law, is an
evidence of loyalty to the Creator. While one class, by accepting the sign of submission to
earthly powers, receive the mark of the beast, the other choosing the token of allegiance to
divine authority, receive the seal of God.” GC, p. 605

Let’s take the example of patriotism. Patriotism is an abstract concept; it is something you
feel deep in your heart. Pledging allegiance to the flag while the Star Spangled Banner is
being played allows you to externalize your patriotism. Pledging your allegiance to the flag
is the externalization of your patriotism or the visible sign of your patriotism. Is it proper
to pledge allegiance to the United States by using a Russian flag? Does it really make any
difference? What would you think of someone who says: “I am a red blooded American, I
love this country” and then pledges allegiance to the Russian flag? Does the external flag
make a difference?

“Those who would have the seal of God in their foreheads must keep the Sabbath of the
fourth commandment. This is what distinguishes them from the disloyal, who have
accepted a man-made institution in the place of the true Sabbath. The observance of God's
rest day is the mark of distinction between him that serveth God and him that serveth Him
not.” Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 970

“The keeping of the Sabbath is a sign of loyalty to the true God.” GC, p. 438

“The Sabbath is a pledge given by God to man--a sign of the relation existing between the
Creator and His created beings. By observing the memorial of the creation of the world in six
days and the rest of the Creator on the seventh day, by keeping the Sabbath holy, according to
His directions, the Israelites were to declare to the world [particularly important in a
polytheistic world] their loyalty to the only true and living God, the Sovereign of the
universe.” 3SM, p. 256




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 231 of 385
“Let us reverence God's institution, the Sabbath day; for it is the sign of our relationship to
God, the sign by which we are demonstrated as His people.” 5MR, p. 86

“To the obedient, it is a sign of their loyalty to God.” 11MR, p. 18

“True observance of the Sabbath is the sign of loyalty to God.” 15MR, p. 32

“Nothing so distinguished the Jews from surrounding nations, and designated them as true
worshipers of the Creator, as the institution of the Sabbath. Its observance was a continual
visible token of their connection with God, and separation from other people.” 2SP, p. 193

The Sabbath as a Deeper Spiritual Experience

“The quiet, consistent, godly life is a living epistle, known and read of all men. Holiness is not
shaped from without or put on; it radiates from within. If goodness, purity, meekness,
lowliness, and integrity dwell in the heart, they will shine forth in the character; and such
a character is full of power. Not the instrument, but the great Worker in whose hand the
instrument is used, receives the glory. The heart filled with the Savior's love, daily receives
grace to impart. The life reveals the redeeming power of the truth.” In Heavenly Places, p.
237

“Just as soon as the people of God are sealed in their foreheads--it is not any seal or mark that
can be seen, but a settling into the truth, both intellectually and spiritually, so they
cannot be moved--just as soon as God's people are sealed and prepared for the shaking, it
will come.” Manuscript 173, 1902, pp. 1-6. ("Medical Missionary Work in Southern
California," Interview held in Los Angeles, California, September 15, 1902 found in 10 MR,
p. 252

“The Sabbath is a test to this generation. In obeying the fourth commandment in spirit and
truth, men will obey all the precepts of the Decalogue. To fulfill this commandment one must
love God supremely, and exercise love toward all the creatures that he has made.” Signs
of the Times, February 13, 1896

“The seal of the living God will be placed upon those only who bear a likeness to Christ in
character.” Review and Herald, May 21, 1895

Internal Sign Revealed

“The sign, or seal, of God is revealed in the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath, the
Lord's memorial of creation." 8T, p. 117

Back to the Times of Jesus

The best way to understand the relationship between the internal work of the Holy Spirit
and the external observance of the Sabbath is by comparing how Jesus and the Pharisees
kept the Sabbath.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 232 of 385
The problem of the Pharisees: Outward behavior without the internal work of the Holy
Spirit on the heart = Legalism.

Matthew 23:25-28

 "Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you cleanse the outside of the cup and
dish, but inside they are full of extortion and self-indulgence. 26 Blind Pharisee, first cleanse
the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. 27 "Woe to you,
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs which indeed appear
beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. 28 Even so
you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and
lawlessness”

All of the healings of Jesus on Sabbath were chronic cases. Jesus especially chose the
Sabbath to reveal that He had the Spirit of God in His heart.

Mark 3:1-7

“And He entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. 2 So
they watched Him closely, whether He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might
accuse Him. 3 And He said to the man who had the withered hand, "Step forward." 4 Then
He said to them, "Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill?"
But they kept silent. 5 And when He had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by
the hardness of their hearts [‘kept’ the Sabbath but had an internal heart problem], He
said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as
whole as the other. 6 Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the
Herodians against Him, how they might destroy Him.”

“Its [observance of the Sabbath] mere outward observance was a mockery.” DA, p. 286

The Pharisees kept the Sabbath externally but did not have the work of the Holy Spirit
upon the heart. The one who has the Holy Spirit in the heart will truly keep the Sabbath
as Jesus did because Jesus was sealed with the Holy Spirit and His Sabbath observance
revealed it.

“As the Jews departed from God, and failed to make the righteousness of Christ their own
by faith, the Sabbath lost its significance [meaning] to them. Satan was seeking to exalt
himself and to draw men away from Christ, and he worked to pervert the Sabbath, because it
is the sign of the power of Christ. The Jewish leaders accomplished the will of Satan by
surrounding God's rest day with burdensome requirements. In the days of Christ, the Sabbath
had become so perverted that its observance reflected the character of selfish and arbitrary
men rather than the character of the loving heavenly Father. The rabbis virtually represented
God as giving laws which it was impossible for men to obey. They led the people to look upon
God as a tyrant, and to think that the observance of the Sabbath, as He required it, made men
hard-hearted and cruel. It was the work of Christ to clear away these misconceptions.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 233 of 385
Although the rabbis followed Him with merciless hostility, He did not even appear to conform
to their requirements, but went straight forward, keeping the Sabbath according to the
law of God.” DA, pp. 283, 284)

“No other institution which was committed to the Jews tended so fully to distinguish them
from surrounding nations as did the Sabbath. God designed that its observance should
designate them as His worshipers. It was to be a token of their separation from idolatry, and
their connection with the true God. But in order to keep the Sabbath holy, men must
themselves be holy. Through faith they must become partakers of the righteousness of
Christ. When the command was given to Israel, "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy,"
the Lord said also to them, "Ye shall be holy men unto Me." Ex. 20:8; 22:31. Only thus could
the Sabbath distinguish Israel as the worshipers of God.” DA, p. 284

From a sign of Christ’s righteousness in the life to glorify Him it became a sign of their
own righteousness and glory for them. It made them intolerant, mean spirited,
judgmental and arrogant. The Sabbath makes no one holy; it is the sign of holiness or
sanctification worked out by the Holy Spirit upon the heart.

Some enemies of the Sabbath such as Dale Ratzlaff say that Jesus is our Sabbath rest and
that we need only rest in Him. After all, didn’t Jesus say?

“Come to Me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”

But does resting in Jesus exonerate us from the need to observe the Sabbath as an external
expression of an internal experience of rest with Jesus?

Would these same enemies of the Sabbath affirm that we don’t need to be baptized
because it is enough to accept Jesus as our Savior in our hearts? Would they say that it is
not necessary to partake of the literal bread and wine in the Lord’s Supper because we
already believe internally what these symbols represent? Would anyone contend that it is
unnecessary to get married in an official legal ceremony simply because love is already in
the heart?

Works are the outward manifestation of faith and faith is the inward motivation for
works.

External Sabbath Keepers

Ellen White always kept the proper balance in her view of the Sabbath. She taught that an
internal relationship with Jesus will lead to an external observance of the Sabbath. She also
taught that an external observance of the Sabbath without the internal work of the Holy
Spirit in the heart is of no value before God:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 234 of 385
“I was shown that merely observing the Sabbath and praying morning and evening are not
positive evidences that we are Christians. These outward forms [external] may all be strictly
observed, and yet true godliness [internal] be lacking.” Spiritual Gifts, volume 4, p. 95

“An outward observance of the Sabbath will not save the soul. The principles interwoven
with every one of the Ten Commandments are to be honored and obeyed in the individual,
practical life. The law, God requires, shall be written on the tablets of every soul.” Letter
191, 1899, pp. 3, 4 (Found in 6MR 396, 397)

“All who keep the Sabbath in truth bear the mark of loyalty to God. They are representatives
of His kingdom. Their light is to shine forth to others in good works. We are not merely to
observe the Sabbath as a legal matter; we are to be intelligent in regard to its spiritual
bearing upon all the transactions of life. God says, "Verily, my sabbaths ye shall keep: for it is
a sign between Me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the
Lord that doth sanctify you." Ex. 31:13. This is sanctification through the truth.” 3MR, p.
424

Some “Sabbath keepers” Will Be Lost

“Not all who profess to keep the Sabbath will be sealed. There are many even among those
who teach the truth to others who will not receive the seal of God in their foreheads. They
had the light of truth, they knew their Master's will, they understood every point of our faith,
but they had not corresponding works. These who were so familiar with prophecy and the
treasures of divine wisdom, should have acted their faith. They should have commanded their
households after them, that by a well-ordered family they might present to the world the
influence of the truth upon the human heart.” Christian Experience and Teaching, p. 189

“The law of God, which is perfect holiness, is the only true standard of character. Love is
expressed in obedience, and perfect love casteth out all fear. Those who love God, have the
seal of God in their foreheads, and work the works of God. Would that all who profess
Christianity knew what it means to love God practically. . . . They would have some
realization of the infinite holiness of God, knowing that He is high and lifted up, and the train
of His glory fills the temple. They would have a powerful influence upon the life and character
of those around them, which would work as leaven amid the mass of humanity, transforming
others through the power of Jesus Christ. Connected with the Source of power, they would
never lose their vital influence, but would ever increase in efficiency.” Sons and Daughters of
God, p. 51

“The quiet, consistent, godly life is a living epistle, known and read of all men. Holiness is not
shaped from without or put on; it radiates from within. If goodness, purity, meekness,
lowliness, and integrity dwell in the heart, they will shine forth in the character; and such a
character is full of power. Not the instrument, but the great Worker in whose hand the
instrument is used, receives the glory. The heart filled with the Savior's love, daily receives




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 235 of 385
grace to impart. The life reveals the redeeming power of the truth.” In Heavenly Places, p.
237

We have focused so much on what we should not do on the Sabbath that we have forgotten
what we should be doing. If we love Jesus we will do what Jesus did on the Sabbath. And
what did Jesus do on the Sabbath? Isaiah 58 has the answer.

The Issue: The Seal of God and the Mark of the Beast

Am I saying that we should be lax in our Sabbath observance? Absolutely not! What I am
saying is that our strict observance of the Sabbath should come from the right
motivation. At the end two distinct days will be external signs of allegiance. The issue
will be: Are my loyalties with God or with the beast?

I am not willing to die for the Sabbath but I am willing to die for the Lord of the Sabbath.
There is no better sign of obedience in the end time than this. The two opposite days will be
the token, sign, avowal or allegiance to one power of the other. But we will only be
willing to die because we have the inward relationship with Jesus. The Sabbath is an
outward sign of inward obedience just like the tree in the Garden.

“The image of the beast will be formed before probation closes; for it is to be the great test for
the people of God, by which their eternal destiny will be decided. . . This is the test that the
people of God must have before they are sealed. All who prove their loyalty to God by
observing His law, and refusing to accept a spurious sabbath, will rank under the banner of
the Lord God Jehovah, and will receive the seal of the living God. Those who yield the truth of
heavenly origin, and accept the Sunday sabbath, will receive the mark of the beast.”
Maranatha, p. 164




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 236 of 385
            “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                    by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    LESSON #12 – CHANGING THE ORDINANCE
Introduction

Some Old Testament scholars have referred to Isaiah 24-27 as the little Apocalypse of the
Old Testament because it has many elements in common with the book of Revelation.
This morning we want to take a look some elements from Isaiah 24

Review Isaiah 24 Briefly

Isaiah 24:17-23

“Fear and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth. 18 And it shall be that
he who flees from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit, and he who comes up from the
midst of the pit shall be caught in the snare; for the windows from on high are open, and the
foundations of the earth are shaken. 19 The earth is violently broken, the earth is split open,
the earth is shaken exceedingly. 20 The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall
totter like a hut; its transgression shall be heavy upon it, and it will fall, and not rise again. 21
It shall come to pass in that day that the LORD will punish on high the host of exalted ones, and
on the earth the kings of the earth. 22 They will be gathered together, as prisoners are
gathered in the pit, and will be shut up in the prison; after many days they will be punished.
23 Then the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed; for the LORD of hosts will reign on
Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before His elders, gloriously.”

      A global catastrophe or cataclysm—the Second Coming of Christ
      Satan and his angels and the wicked kings of the earth punished by being thrown
       into prison
      Many days are equal to 1000 years
      After the l000 years they are punished



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 237 of 385
      The New Jerusalem and Mt. Zion come to view
      The sun and moon ashamed
      God reigns in Zion and Jerusalem before His ancients (elders) gloriously.
This whole scene is describing events that take place at the Second Coming of Christ,
during and after the 1000 years. This does not apply to the Jews but to the very end of
time.

Three Reasons for Earth Defiled

The critical question is: Why were the wicked punished and why were the righteous
saved?

Let’s take a look at Isaiah 24, verses 5 and 6:

“The earth mourns and fades away, the world languishes and fades away; the haughty people
of the earth languish. The earth is also defiled under its inhabitants, because they have [1]
transgressed the laws, [2] changed the ordinance, [3] broken the everlasting covenant.”

Why is the earth defiled under its inhabitants?

Three parallel reasons are given:

      The inhabitants have transgressed the laws
      Changed the ordinance
      Broken the everlasting covenant

Consequences of the Three Reasons

What are the consequences of this? The answer is given by the word ‘therefore’ in verse
6:

“Therefore the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell in it are desolate,
therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men are left.”

Let’s take a closer look at the three reasons for the defilement of the earth by its
inhabitants. The Hebrew word ‘defiled’ means ‘to soil, corrupt, defile, pollute morally’
(Jeremiah 3:9; Jeremiah 23:11).

Transgressed the Laws

There is no doubt about which laws are being spoken. The same word is used in
Nehemiah 9:13-14 where Mt. Sinai, the law and the Sabbath are linked. See also Exodus
24:12 where the tables of stone contain a law and commandments that God wrote! Which
law did God write? Exodus 31:18 has the answer.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 238 of 385
Nehemiah 9:13-15

“You came down also on Mount Sinai and spoke with them from heaven, and gave them
just ordinances and true laws [torah], good statutes and commandments. 14 You made
known to them Your holy Sabbath and commanded them precepts, statutes and laws
[torah] by the hand of Moses Your servant.”

The Hebrew word Torah is also used to describe prescriptions of the ceremonial law. But
Isaiah 24:5 cannot be referring to this law because it was done away with when Jesus
died on the cross. God would not punish the world for breaking laws that were no longer
binding! So these must be perpetual laws. It is possible that the word Torah should be
singular because the Syriac, the LXX (nomon) and the Chaldee all have the word Torah in
singular.

The New Testament supports the Old Testament meaning of Isaiah 24:5. In fact, the LXX
of Isaiah 24:5 employs the word anomias.

1 John 3:4: Sin is the transgression of the law (anomias).

“Whoever commits sin also commits lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness.”

Matthew 24:12: The final generation will be a lawless one. The Greek word anomias
is one who is a transgressor of the law. Why would God condemn the world for
lawlessness if the law were nailed to the cross?

“And because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow cold.”

Matthew 7:23: Those who claim the name of Jesus will be lawless, not only the secular
humanists. They even performed signs and wonders but they were transgressors of the
Law

"And then I will declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from Me, you who practice
lawlessness!'

Hebrews 1:8: The end time generation will contrast with Jesus who hated lawlessness
because the law was in His heart (Psalm 40:7, 8)

“But to the Son He says: "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; a scepter of righteousness is
the scepter of Your Kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness;
therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness more than Your
companions."

It is the same word that is used in 2 Thessalonians 2: The mystery of lawlessness.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 239 of 385
Changed the Ordinance (singular: There is a particular one)

      The word ‘change’ is employed of Laban changing Jacob’s salary ten times (Genesis
       31:7).

      Joseph changing is garments when he was brought forth from prison (Genesis
       41:14).

      The Hebrew word is also translated ‘abolish’ (Isaiah 2:18) and ‘alter’ (Leviticus
       27:10).

What about the word ‘ordinance’?

Hebrew lexicographers explain that the original root word choq means ‘to scratch or
engrave cutting in or engraving in stone.’

According to the best Hebrew scholars the original root meaning is ‘to engrave laws upon
slabs of stone or metal to set them in a public place.’ Jack P. Lewis, Theological Wordbook
of the Old Testament, volume 1, p. 317.

According to Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew Lexicon it means:

“. . . to cut in, to cut upon, to engrave, to inscribe, to trace and to mark out”.

The word appears frequently in the company of other words for law in the Old Testament
such as “word”, “testimony”, “law”, “judgment” and “commandment”.

“The word's synonyms are mitswah, "commandment"; mishpat, "judgment"; berit, "covenant";
torah, "law"; and `edut, "testimony." It is not easy to distinguish between these synonyms, as
they are often found in conjunction with each other.” Vine's Expository Dictionary of Biblical
Words, Copyright (c) 1985, Thomas Nelson Publishers)

It is used to describe unchangeable decrees established by God at creation:

      The creation decree which keeps the sea contained within its bounds.

       Proverbs 8:29: The boundaries of the oceans

       NIV: “. . . when he gave the sea its boundary [choq: decree, KJV] so the waters would
       not overstep his command, and when he marked out the foundations of the earth.”

       Job 38:8-11: Boundaries for the oceans

       NIV: “Who shut up the sea behind doors when it burst forth from the womb [at
       creation the world was filled with water], when I made the clouds its garment and
       wrapped it in thick darkness, when I fixed limits [choq] for it and set its doors and




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 240 of 385
       bars in place, when I said, 'This far you may come and no farther; here is where your
       proud waves halt'?”

      The decree which keeps the heavenly bodies in their orbits.

       Psalm 148:3, 6

       NKJV: “Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all you stars of light . . . Praise him,
       you highest heavens and you waters above the skies. Let them praise the name of the
       LORD for he commanded and they were created. He set them in place for ever and
       ever; he gave a decree [choq] that will never pass away.”

      The decree which causes the rain to fall in its due season.

       Job 28:25, 26

       NIV: “When he established the force of the wind and measured out the waters, when
       he made a decree [choq] for the rain and a path for the thunderstorm.”

      God’s decree which guarantees the regularity of the seasons of harvest.

       Jeremiah 5:24

       NIV: “They do not say to themselves, 'Let us fear the LORD our God, who gives autumn
       and spring rains in season, who assures us of the regular [choq] weeks of harvest.'

      I Chronicles 16:17 describes how God made an everlasting covenant with
       Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, an oath that could not be changed.

       NIV: “The covenant he made with Abraham, the oath he swore to Isaac. He confirmed
       it to Jacob as a decree [choq], to Israel as an everlasting covenant.”

       Psalms 89:34: Later God promised to David:

       NKJV: “My covenant I will not break, nor alter the word that has gone out of My lips.”

The Ten Commandments were engraved upon tables of stone to indicate their
permanence and the fact that they cannot be changed. They were given as decrees of God
to man.

Yet Daniel 7:25 describes a little horn which would think it could change God’s times and
law. This is what Isaiah 24:5 is describing. What change has been made in what God
originally marked off for man?




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 241 of 385
Exodus 32:16-17

“Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God engraved on
the tablets.”

The first is marriage:

“God gave only one cause why a wife should leave her husband, or the husband leave his wife,
which was adultery. Let this ground be prayerfully considered. Marriage was from the
creation constituted by God a divine ordinance. The marriage institution was made in Eden.
The Sabbath of the fourth commandment was instituted in Eden, when the foundations of the
world were laid, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for
joy. Then let this, God's institution of marriage, stand before you as firm as the Sabbath of
the fourth commandment.” Testimonies on Sexual Behavior, Adultery and Divorce, p. 159

“The Sabbath was hallowed at the creation. As ordained [key word] for man, it had its origin
when "the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy" Job 38:7. DA,
p. 281

“I was shown that the law of God would stand fast forever, and exist in the new earth to all
eternity. At the creation, when the foundations of the earth were laid, the sons of God
looked with admiration upon the work of the Creator, and all the heavenly host shouted for
joy [Job 38:4-7]. It was then that the foundation of the Sabbath was laid . . . I saw that the
Sabbath never will be done away; but that the redeemed saints and all the angelic host, will
observe it in honor of the great Creator to all eternity.” EW, p. 217

“Like the Sabbath, the week originated at creation, and it has been preserved and brought
down to us through Bible history. God Himself measured off [God not only measured the
geography of the earth but also the chronology] the first week as a sample for successive
weeks to the close of time. Like every other, it consisted of seven literal days. Six days were
employed in the work of creation; upon the seventh, God rested, and He then blessed this day
and set it apart as a day of rest for man. PP, p. 111

“All those who hold the beginning of their confidence firm unto the end will keep the seventh-
day Sabbath, which comes to us as marked by the sun.” 3SM, pp. 318,319

“The Creator of the heavens and the earth commanded, "The seventh day is the Sabbath of the
Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work." This command was enforced by the example
of its Author, proclaimed with his own voice, and placed in the very bosom of the
Decalogue. But the papal power has removed [or changed] this divine ordinance [key
word] and substituted a day that God has not sanctified, and upon which he did not rest, the
festival so long adored by heathens as the "venerable day of the sun." ST, September 14, 1882

“The prophet thus points out the ordinance [key word] which has been forsaken: "Thou shalt
raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, the repairer of the



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 242 of 385
breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in. If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from
doing thy pleasure on My holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord,
honorable; and shalt honor Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure,
nor speaking thine own words: then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord." Verses 12-14. This
prophecy also applies in our time. The breach was made in the law of God when the Sabbath
was changed [notice the terminology] by the Roman power. But the time has come for
that divine institution to be restored. The breach is to be repaired and the foundation of
many generations to be raised up. GC, pp. 452, 453

Evangelicals and Catholics today are fighting tooth and nail to maintain marriage as
God ordained it at creation and this is good. There is an outcry against the attempt of
liberals to change the marriage institution from heterosexual to homosexual.

But Evangelicals and Catholics must be consistent. They cannot restore one creation
ordinance and trample on the other. They cannot say that man cannot change the
marriage institution but that he can change the Sabbath! This kind of double talk must
stop. I challenge Evangelicals and Catholics to restore both creation institutions as God
originally made them. After all, both of these institutions are symbols of the relationship
between God and His people! If marriage is still a symbol of that relationship, why not the
Sabbath?

Broken the Everlasting Covenant

There is only one everlasting covenant between the Father and the Son. The agreement
was that if man sinned, God would provide a substitute to restore man to his original
condition.

The covenant had two aspects: [1] Covenant law and [2] covenant sacrifice. The violation
of covenant law made the covenant sacrifice necessary.

Notice Deuteronomy 4:12-13 for covenant law.

“And the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of the words, but
saw no form; you only heard a voice. 13 So He declared to you His covenant which He
commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments; and He wrote them on two
tablets of stone.”

Notice how Hebrews 8:10-12 puts the two ideas together: Forgiveness and obedience.
Explain how sadness over what sin did with Jesus, cleanses our garments in His blood.

“For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the
LORD: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts; and I will be their
God, and they shall be My people. 11 None of them shall teach his neighbor, and none his
brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' for all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 243 of 385
of them. 12 For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their lawless
deeds I will remember no more."

Isaiah 26:12: God works in us

“LORD, You will establish peace for us, for You have also done all our works in us.”

Philippians 2:12-13

“Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much
more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling; 13 for it is God
who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure.”

Ephesians 2:8-10

“For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of
God, 9 not of works, lest anyone should boast. 10 For we are His workmanship, created in
Christ Jesus [redemption] for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should
walk in them.”

Hebrews 13:20, 21:

“Now may the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great
Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, 21 make you
complete in every good work to do His will, working in you what is well pleasing in His
sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.”

How Can This Be Done?

Isaiah 26:1-3 and emphasize the word ‘stayed’ or fastened to:

“In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a strong city; God will
appoint salvation for walls and bulwarks. Open the gates that the righteous nation that
keeps the truth may enter in. You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on
You, because he trusts in You.”

Our mind must be stayed on Him. We do not become like Jesus by merely glimpsing or
glancing at Him once in a while but by lingering and dwelling on Him.

2 Corinthians 3:18

“But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being
transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord.”

“By beholding Christ, by talking of Him, by beholding the loveliness of His character we
become changed. Changed from glory to glory. And what is glory? Character—and he




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 244 of 385
becomes changed from character to character. Thus we see that there is a work of
purification that goes on by beholding Jesus.” Sons and Daughters of God, p. 337

Revelation 22:14, 15:

“Blessed are those who do His commandments [Revelation 12:17; 14:12], that they may
have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. 15 But outside
are dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and whoever loves
and practices a lie.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 245 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 246 of 385
          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr


         LESSON #13 – A DAY TO REMEMBER:
         THE SABBATH FROM EDEN TO EDEN
Introduction

During the first six days of creation week God made everything perfect, beautiful and
harmonious. At the conclusion of the sixth day God looked upon everything that He had
made and it was very good.

Genesis 1:31-2:1

“Then God saw everything that He had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening
and the morning were the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth, and all the host of
them, were finished.”

Literal Days

According to the Biblical story, creation took place in six literal days and had no defects
with no taint of sin or death. The Bible clearly indicates that creation did not take place
over millions of years but rather in six literal 24-hour days, as we know them today.
There are several reasons we believe this:

Jesus and the New Testament writers unanimously testify that creation took place in
space and time just as it is described in Genesis (for example, Matthew 19:1-6). To
question a literal creation account is to impugn the integrity of the New Testament
writers, including Jesus Himself!
Psalm 33 describes the immediacy and rapidity of the events of creation week:

“By the word of the Lord the heavens were made and all the host of them by the breath of His
mouth. For He spoke and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 247 of 385
Genesis 1:4, 5: describes the daily cycle of day and night, or evening and morning. It
would not make any sense to say that each day had an ‘evening and morning’ if the days of
creation were millions of years in length.

The expression “and it was so” that is used several times in Genesis 1 indicates
immediacy and rapidity (1:7, 9, 11, 15, 24).

It is a fact that in the Old Testament, every single time that the word “day” appears in the
singular with an and ordinal number (day one, day two, etc.) it means a 24-hour day.
There are no exceptions to this rule.

Exodus 20:11: The Sabbath commandment offers definitive proof that the days of
creation week were literal, consecutive and contiguous. Think about it. God instructed
man to work six days and rest on the seventh just like He had during creation week.
How could God tell man to work six days as He had worked and to rest on the seventh as He
had if the days were millions of years in length?

Clearly, the Bible portrays a creation scenario and not an evolutionary one. In Scripture,
God is portrayed as a person who is outside of and distinct from creation. Nature is not
God (pantheism), God is not in nature (panentheism); nature belongs to God. In other
words, we are to care for nature, not because nature is God but because it is God’s.

Days Numbered / Evening and Morning

Man has changed three things that God established during creation week. First, he has
given the days of the week planetary names rather than numbers. Second, he has changed
the time to begin the day from sundown to midnight. Third, he has changed the
commemorative day of creation from Sabbath to Sunday.

Genesis 1:31-2:1: The Genesis record indicates that each day of creation week was
numbered rather than named and that the days were marked by the expression evening
(sunset) and morning (sunrise):

“Then God saw everything that He had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening
and the morning were the sixth day.”

Note: At creation the days were numbered sequentially, not named. The practice of
numbering the days is not totally unknown today because in Brazil, for example, only two
days are named—Sabbath and Sunday while the rest of the other days are numbered with
reference to the Sabbath.

Genesis 1:5: The day begins at evening

“God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. So the evening and the morning
were the first day.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 248 of 385
Mark 1:32: The Sabbath begins and ends when the sun sets.

“At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to Him all who were sick and those who
were demon-possessed.”

God is the Subject of Creation

God was the central actor or subject of the first six days of creation week. At the
beginning of the creation story we are told in no uncertain terms: “in the beginning God
created the heavens and the earth” (Genesis 1:1) and at the conclusion we are told that
“God saw everything that He had made, and indeed it was very good” (Genesis 1:31)

Some 30 times in chapters 1 and 2 God is described as the sole active agent with
expressions such as: ‘God created,’ ‘God said,’ ‘God saw,’ ‘God called,’ ‘God made,’ ‘God set
them,’ and ‘God blessed.’

God the Subject of the Seventh Day

God is also at the center of the seventh day of creation week. It was God who rested,
blessed and sanctified the seventh day:

Genesis 2:2, 3

“And on the seventh day God ended His work that He had done, and He rested on the
seventh day from all His work that He had done. Then God blessed the seventh day and
sanctified it, because in it He rested from all His work which God had created and made.”

      Repeatedly we are told in these verses that it was God who worked six days and
       God who rested on the seventh. There is no record of man creating during the
       first six days or ceasing on the seventh day. Of course it would be impossible for
       man to cease from an activity that he did not perform!
      The word ‘rested’ (shabbat) should be translated ‘ceased’.
      God created the first week of seven days and then gave it to man, therefore the first
       week of history is what I call ‘God’s Week’. He worked six and He ceased on the
       seventh!
      The seventh day of the week was blessed and set apart by God as holy. All days are
       not holy or blessed. Three times in the text we are told that God ceased, blessed
       and made holy THE SEVENTH DAY. It is obvious that God did not bless the day and
       make it holy for Himself because God is the source of all blessing and holiness!
      It was God’s ceasing that made the Sabbath holy—because God ceased on the
       seventh day, the day is holy.
      Why did God work six, cease on the seventh, and make it holy when He could have
       created everything instantly? The Fourth Commandment of God’s holy law has the
       answer:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 249 of 385
      "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your
      work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall do no
      work: you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female
      servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For [because] in
      six days the LORD made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and
      He rested the seventh day, therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day and
      hallowed it.”

      God worked six days and ceased on the seventh to give man an example of working
      six and ceasing on the seventh as a perpetual reminder of the Creator.

     God did not command man to cease on the first Sabbath because it was not made
      holy until God has ceased the entire day. The twenty-four hours of the Sabbath
      became holy when God had ceased 24 hours. The Fourth Commandment of God’s
      holy law applies to man beginning with the second week. The first week God
      worked six and ceased on the seventh and then He told man to follow His example in
      working six and ceasing on the seventh.

The Second Sabbath

     It was God who ceased on that first Sabbath.

     Adam and Eve could not keep that first Sabbath holy because it was not made holy
      by God until it ended. The Sabbath, like the rest of the week, were made for man.
      Certainly an eternal God did not need a seven-day week for Himself!!

     Adam and Eve could not follow God’s example until He had first given it.
      “God made man in His own image and then gave him an example of observing the
      seventh day, which He sanctified and made holy.” Lift Him Up, p. 38

      “After resting upon the seventh day, God sanctified it, or set it apart, as a day of rest
      for man. Following the example of the Creator, man was to rest upon this sacred
      day, that as he should look upon the heavens and the earth, he might reflect upon
      God's great work of creation; and that as he should behold the evidences of God's
      wisdom and goodness, his heart might be filled with love and reverence for his Maker.”
      PP, p. 47

      Like a parent showing his child how to build something with Lego’s. God did not
      tell them to keep it until he showed them how to keep it.

     The fourth commandment applies to Adam and Eve beginning with the second
      week of human history. They had to work six first and then rest on the seventh in
      order to keep the fourth commandment.




      “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 250 of 385
Details about the Sabbath

      There was no Jew when God established the Sabbath. Adam and Eve were the
       father and mother of the entire human race, not just the Jews.
      There was no sin when God established the Sabbath so it is part of God’s original
       plan for the entire human race. In its initial function it was not a shadow of
       redemption because there was no need of redemption when it was established.
      According to the Genesis account, God finished his work twice (Genesis 2:1, 2). You
       might ask: How can something be finished twice? Let’s Imagine an artist who
       finishes a work of art and then places his signature upon it. During the first six days
       God painted a living work of art and the Sabbath was God’s signature upon His
       work of creation. The Sabbath thus identified who painted the work of art and to
       whom it belonged.
      God gave man dominion at the end of the sixth day but the seventh day indicates
       that Man is accountable to God. After the sixth day God was telling man: “You are
       the Lord of what I created” (Genesis 1:26, 27) but the seventh day God was saying to
       man: “I am your Lord because I created you.”
      God created everyday common things the first six days but the seventh day He
       made holy time. God did not make a holy shrine in space but rather in time. Man
       did not have to go to the shrine to worship, the shrine came to him!!
      A week of seven days appears to be totally arbitrary. Other measurements of time
       have an astronomical explanation. The day is the amount of time it takes for the
       earth to make one complete turn on its axis. The month is the period between one
       new moon and another. The year is the amount of time it takes for our earth to
       make one complete revolution around the sun. But the week of seven days is
       arbitrary. The week could have contained six days or five or eight or nine. The
       reason for a seven-day week is that God created the week of seven days!!


God Delighted

God did not rest because He was tired. Speaking things into existence certainly does not
cause exhaustion:

Isaiah 40:28:

“Have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the LORD, the Creator of the
ends of the earth, neither faints nor is weary.”

The Bible tells us that God saw everything that He had made and it was very good! In
Exodus 31:17 we are told that He was refreshed, a word that means that He took a
breath! He delighted in the works of His hands. The seventh day was a day on which God
and all the heavenly universe delighted in the work of His hands (Job 38:4-7). This is the
reason Isaiah 58 refers to the Sabbath as a delight.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 251 of 385
Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 47:

“After resting upon the seventh day, God sanctified it, or set it apart, as a day of rest for
man. Following the example of the Creator, man was to rest upon this sacred day, that [the
purpose] as he should look upon the heavens and the earth, he might reflect upon God's
great work of creation; and that as he should behold the evidences of God's wisdom and
goodness, his heart might be filled with love and reverence for his Maker.”

God Owns Creation and the Sabbath

Psalm 24:1, 2: Creation is God’s property because He made it in six days. Thus, the
environment belongs to Him and must be cared for because it is not ours!

“The earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein for
[because] He has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the waters.”

But God created the Sabbath as well, so the Sabbath must also be His because He made it.
If the world and everything in it is His because He made it then the Sabbath is also His
because He made it. This is the reason why the Bible always refers to the Sabbath as the
Lord’s Day. It belongs to Him because He made it. In fact, we shall find in Isaiah 58 that He
explicitly calls it ‘MY HOLY DAY’.

The Sabbath and Redemption: The Manna

Exodus 16:4:

“Then the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you. And the people
shall go out and gather a certain quota every day, that I may test them, whether they will
walk in My law or not.”

      Israel was in the wilderness on the move so God gave them Manna from heaven to
       feed them
      For 40 years God performed this miracle teaching them that the seventh day is the
       Sabbath.

      God gave the Sabbath to test Israel to see if they would obey His law.

      But God also gave the Manna to teach Israel that they should live spiritually by every
       words that proceeds out of the mouth of God (Deuteronomy 8:3).
Exodus 16:19, 20: When the Manna was saved from one day to the next (except on the
Sabbath), the Manna bred worms and stank. It is a decomposing body that breeds worms
and stinks. This was not normal bread. God wanted to teach a very important lesson.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 252 of 385
“And Moses said, "Let no one leave any of it till morning." 20 Notwithstanding, they did not
heed Moses but some of them left part of it until morning, and it bred worms and stank. And
Moses was angry with them.”

Exodus 16:23, 24: When Israel picked up a double portion of Manna on Friday for the
Sabbath it did not breed worms or stink—it was as fresh as it had been of Friday!

“Then he said to them, "This is what the LORD has said: 'Tomorrow is a Sabbath rest, a holy
Sabbath to the LORD. Bake what you will bake today, and boil what you will boil; and lay up
for yourselves all that remains, to be kept until morning.'" 24 So they laid it up till morning, as
Moses commanded; and it did not stink, nor were there any worms in it.”

John 6:51: The manna symbolized the flesh of Jesus.

“I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live
forever; and the bread that I shall give is My flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world."

Acts 2:25-27, 31: The body of Jesus saw no corruption in the tomb on the Sabbath.

“For David says concerning Him: 'I foresaw the LORD always before my face, for He is at my
right hand, that I may not be shaken. 26 Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was
glad; moreover my flesh also will rest in hope, for You will not leave my soul in Hades, nor
will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption.”

The Ten Commandments

Exodus 20:8-11:

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall do no work: you, nor
your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle,
nor your stranger who is within your gates. For [because] in six days the LORD made the
heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and He rested the seventh day.
Therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.”

      The Ten Commandments is the only thing in the Bible that God wrote with His own
       finger. The rest of the Bible was given to a prophet and then the prophet wrote it.

      God worked six, rested the seventh and then blessed the day and made it holy.

      After God created the week, he commanded Adam and Eve to follow His example in
       working six and resting on the seventh to remember that He was the Creator.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 253 of 385
The Purpose of Memorials

      The word ‘remember’ in the Fourth Commandment indicates that the Sabbath was
       meant to be a memorial. Memorials are built so that people do not forget something
       very important that occurred in the past. Examples of memorials are the Oklahoma
       City Memorial that commemorates the bombing of the Federal Building on April 19,
       1995, and the World Trade Center Memorial that commemorates an event that
       occurred on September 11, 2001. The Jefferson Memorial was built to remind us of
       the principles upon which our nation was established—civil and religious liberty.

      The Sabbath is a memorial in time so it comes to us. If the memorial of creation had
       been established in a certain place, then those who lived close by would have an
       advantage. But with a memorial in time, no one has a monopoly. And the memorial
       will last as long as time shall last!!

      The Sabbath cannot be changed from the seventh to another day just like you cannot
       change the date of your birthday because it is anchored in time.

      Would it make sense to change the celebration of Independence Day from July 4 to
       July 5? We cannot change the day of the week that commemorates creation
       because it is rooted in history.

      There are three elements that a seal must have in order to be authentic. These
       three elements are contained in the ancient seals discovered in the Canaanite city of
       Ugarit:

       Name of the authority
       Office or function of the authority
       Territory over which he has authority

Exodus 31:12-18: The Sabbath a Sign

Exodus 31:14-18:

“You shall keep the Sabbath, therefore, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall
surely be put to death; for whoever does any work on it, that person shall be cut off from
among his people. Work shall be done for six days, but the seventh is the Sabbath of rest,
holy to the LORD. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath Day, he shall surely be put to
death. Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath
throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between Me and the
children of Israel forever; for [because] in six days the LORD made the heavens and the earth,
and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.'" And when He had made an end of
speaking with him on Mount Sinai, He gave Moses two tablets of the Testimony, tablets of
stone, written with the finger of God.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 254 of 385
      Someone might object: “The text clearly states that the Sabbath is a sign between God
       and the children of Israel and therefore it is not a sign for us”. Let’s reflect on that
       objection. God gave all of the Ten Commandments to Israel on Mt. Sinai. Does this
       mean that the Ten Commandments were given only for Israel? To answer this
       question with a yes would be absurd!

      Idolatry, disrespect of parents, adultery, killing, stealing, lying and coveting are
       wrong in every culture and apply to the entire human race at all times. We
       cannot pick and choose which commandments apply to us and which don’t.

      We can approach this from another angle. The Sabbath is a sign of the relationship
       between God and Israel. And who is Israel today? Those who have joined Christ in
       baptism are God’s true Israel so if we are Israel we must keep the Sabbath!

       Galatians 3:28, 29:

       “There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male
       nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ's, then you are
       Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.”

Isaiah the Gospel Prophet

Isaiah 58:12-14: God calls the Sabbath HIS holy day and commands us to keep it. Contrary
to what many Christians believe, the Sabbath is a delight and honorable:

"If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on My holy day, and
call the Sabbath a delight, the holy day of the LORD honorable, and shall honor Him, not
doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor speaking your own words, 14
Then you shall delight yourself in the LORD; and I will cause you to ride on the high hills of
the earth, and feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father. The mouth of the LORD has
spoken."

Isaiah 56:6-7: The Sabbath was meant for all people from all nations:

"Also the sons of the foreigner who join themselves to the LORD, to serve Him, and to love the
name of the LORD, to be His servants—everyone who keeps from defiling the Sabbath, and
holds fast My covenant—even them I will bring to My holy mountain, and make them joyful in
My house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on My altar; for
My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations."

Isaiah 58:6, 7

Immediately before the passage that we just read we are told that the Sabbath is linked
with the idea of helping those who are less fortunate than us.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 255 of 385
"Is this not the fast that I have chosen: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy
burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? Is it not to share
your bread with the hungry, and that you bring to your house the poor who are cast out;
when you see the naked, that you cover him, and not hide yourself from your own flesh?

Exodus 23:12: The Sabbath was given as a day to give rest even to the domestic beasts
and the less fortunate of society. For Israel life was not to be an endless cycle of work.
They needed a day to connect with their spiritual roots, help the weak and to enjoy
family. The day was not Sunday but rather the seventh day Sabbath!!

“Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall rest, that your ox and your
donkey may rest, and the son of your female servant and the stranger may be refreshed.”

Destruction of Jerusalem

Jeremiah 17:24-27: God promised that Jerusalem would stand forever if Israel kept the
Sabbath. But He also told them that the city would be destroyed if they desecrated the
Sabbath:

"And it shall be, if you heed Me carefully," says the LORD, "to bring no burden through the
gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but hallow the Sabbath day, to do no work in it, then
shall enter the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on the throne of David, riding in
chariots and on horses, they and their princes, accompanied by the men of Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city shall remain forever. And they shall come from the
cities of Judah and from the places around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin and from the
lowland, from the mountains and from the South, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices,
grain offerings and incense, bringing sacrifices of praise to the house of the LORD. "But if you
will not heed Me to hallow the Sabbath day, such as not carrying a burden when entering
the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall
devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched."'"

A Sign or Seal

Ezekiel 20:12, 20: Ezekiel indicates that Israel fell into idolatry because she failed to keep
the Sabbath. The Sabbath is a sign that the Lord is our creator God and that we are His
people.

“Moreover I also gave them My Sabbaths, to be a sign between them and Me, that they might
know that I am the LORD who sanctifies them . . . hallow My Sabbaths, and they will be a
sign between Me and you, that you may know that I am the LORD your God.'

After the Babylonian Captivity

Nehemiah 13:15-22: The gates of Jerusalem were to be closed before sundown on
Friday:


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 256 of 385
“In those days I saw people in Judah treading wine presses on the Sabbath, and bringing in
sheaves, and loading donkeys with wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens, which they
brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them about the day on which
they were selling provisions. Men of Tyre dwelt there also, who brought in fish and all kinds of
goods, and sold them on the Sabbath to the children of Judah, and in Jerusalem. Then I
contended with the nobles of Judah, and said to them, "What evil thing is this that you do,
by which you profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers do thus, and did not our God
bring all this disaster on us and on this city? Yet you bring added wrath on Israel by
profaning the Sabbath." So it was, at the gates of Jerusalem, as it began to be dark before
the Sabbath, that I commanded the gates to be shut, and charged that they must not be
opened till after the Sabbath. Then I posted some of my servants at the gates, so that no
burdens would be brought in on the Sabbath day. Now the merchants and sellers of all kinds
of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice. Then I warned them, and said to them, "Why
do you spend the night around the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you!" From that
time on they came no more on the Sabbath.

The Little Horn

Daniel 7:25: This verse describes the attempt by the little horn to change God’s Law:

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most
High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.”

Jesus and the Sabbath

Mark 2:27, 28: Jesus taught that the Sabbath was made for man just like everything else
that God made. If Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath, then the Sabbath must be the Lord’s Day.
Some Christians believe that the expression ‘Lord’s Day’ in Revelation 1:10 refers to
Sunday. It is true that Sunday was called the Lord’s Day in the post-apostolic church but the
Bible, 23 times, refers to the Sabbath as the Lord’s Day. It is important to remember that
the Sabbath was ‘made’—it is part of God’s creation (the word ‘made’ is the same as used
in John 1:3). It is rather obvious that Jesus could not give the Sabbath to man until He made
it!!

“And He said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath,
therefore the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath."

Luke 4:16: It was the custom of Jesus to go to church on the Sabbath:

“So He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. And as His custom was, He went
into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 257 of 385
Matthew 12:11, 12:

“Then He said to them, "What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a
pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value then is a
man than a sheep? Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”

Jesus did not break the Sabbath that He created. If He had broken the Sabbath, he would
have been a sinner because the Bible says that ‘sin is the transgression of the law’. It was
lawful for Jesus to do good on the Sabbath. Jesus performed seven miracles on the
Sabbath and in each case it was to alleviate the suffering of the less fortunate. The
Sabbath is the day to help the poor, the sick and the hungry:

      A man born blind
      A paralytic for 38 years
      A woman who had a hemorrhage of blood for 18 years
      A demon-possessed man
      Peter’s mother in law who had a fever
      A man with a withered hand
      A man with the dropsy
The Pharisees had added all sorts of human regulations and traditions to the Sabbath
that made it a yoke of bondage. Jesus came to restore the Sabbath to its original
meaning. Some Christian scholars state that Jesus broke the Sabbath. In this they become
accusers along with the Pharisees. Jesus came to correct the distortion of the Sabbath like
He did the distortion of marriage (Matthew 19:4-6).

The Rest of Redemption

John 17:4: In His intercessory prayer on the way to Gethsemane Jesus told His Father
that He had finished His work:

“I have glorified You on the earth. I have finished the work which You have given Me to do.”

John 19:30: At three o’clock on Friday, the sixth day of the week, Jesus finished His
work of redemption and said: “it is finished”. It is no coincidence that Jesus also finished His
work of creation on the sixth day of the week.

“So when Jesus had received the sour wine, He said, "It is finished!" And bowing His head, He
gave up His spirit.”

Luke 23:54-56: The sequence of days: Jesus died on Friday, rested in the tomb on
Sabbath and resurrected on the first day of the week. On the Sabbath, the women rested
outside the tomb:

“That day was the Preparation, and the Sabbath drew near. And the women who had come
with Him from Galilee followed after, and they observed the tomb and how His body was laid.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 258 of 385
Then they returned and prepared spices and fragrant oils. And they rested on the Sabbath
according to the commandment.”

There is not a jot or tittle of evidence that the Sabbath had been changed. Jesus gave no
inkling of a change during His ministry. Many European nations have attempted to change
the enumeration of the days on the calendar. They begin the week on Monday as the first
day and Sunday as the seventh. This makes it appear like Sunday is the seventh day of
rest. This is clearly out of harmony with the Bible. The Bible clearly states that Jesus
resurrected on the first day and it was not Monday but rather Sunday.

Acts 2:25, 26: Not only did the women rest the Sabbath outside the tomb but the body of
Jesus rested in the tomb. While the women rested outside the tomb, Jesus rested inside:

“For David says concerning Him: 'I foresaw the LORD always before my face, for He is at my
right hand, that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad;
moreover my flesh also will rest in hope.”

2 Corinthians 5:17: Spiritually speaking, redemption is a new creation. When a person
repents and receives Christ as Savior, His life and His death stand in the place of the sinner.

It is not possible to separate redemption from creation. Jesus created us and rested on
the Sabbath. Jesus redeemed us and rested in the tomb on the Sabbath! Thus the Sabbath
is a sign of creation and re-creation:

“Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold,
all things have become new.”

The Year 70 AD

Matthew 24:20: There is clear evidence that forty years after the resurrection, the
Sabbath was still the day of rest. When the Romans surrounded the city of Jerusalem the
first time and then retreated without apparent reason, the followers of Jesus were to see
this as a sign that it was time to flee from the city. Jesus told His disciples:

“. . . pray that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath.”

The Jerusalem Council

At the Jerusalem Council 49 AD there was a huge debate over whether circumcision was
abolished or not but no debate on the issue of the Sabbath. The Jewish Christians would
have shouted bloody murder if there had been any talk about abolishing the Sabbath as
Jewish.

Practice of the Apostle Paul

Acts 13:14: Paul and his companions entered the synagogue in Antioch in Pisidia:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 259 of 385
“But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the
synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down. And after the reading of the Law and the
Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, "Men and brethren, if you have any
word of exhortation for the people, say on."

Acts 13:42, 44: Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel of Jesus in the synagogue in
Antioch of Pisidia the next Sabbath and almost the entire city came out to hear them:

“So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be
preached to them the next Sabbath . . . On the next Sabbath almost the whole city came
together to hear the word of God.”

Acts 16:13: Women gathered for worship next to a riverside on the Sabbath and Paul
preached a message to them:

“And on the Sabbath day we went out of the city to the riverside, where prayer was
customarily made; and we sat down and spoke to the women who met there.”

Acts 17:2: Paul preached Christ in the synagogue in Thessalonica for three Sabbaths is a
row:

“Then Paul, as his custom was, went in to them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them
from the Scriptures, explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer and rise
again from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ."

Acts 18:1-4: Paul stayed in Corinth for three years and every Sabbath he persuaded both
Jews and Greeks:

“After these things Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth. And he found a certain
Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla
(because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome); and he came to them.
So, because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked; for by occupation they
were tentmakers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded both
Jews and Greeks.”

The End Time

Revelation 14:6, 7: The last message of God to the world has three parts. The first angel
calls upon us to worship the creator and the sign is the Sabbath according to the Fourth
Commandment.

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to
preach to those who dwell on the earth—to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people--saying
with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come;
and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water."




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 260 of 385
Psalm 95:1-6: Why is God worthy of our worship? Simply because He is our Creator and
the sign of remembrance is the seventh day Sabbath:

“Oh come, let us sing to the LORD! Let us shout joyfully to the Rock of our salvation. Let us come
before His presence with thanksgiving; let us shout joyfully to Him with psalms. For the LORD is
the great God, and the great King above all gods. In His hand are the deep places of the
earth; the heights of the hills are His also. The sea is His, for [because] He made it; and His
hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the
LORD our Maker.”

The Sign or Seal

Romans 4:11: The words ‘sign’ and ‘seal’ are used interchangeably:

“And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he
had while still uncircumcised . . .”

The sign of seal that shows that we worship the Creator is the Sabbath. A seal, in order to
be authentic must have three elements:

      The name
      The office
      The territory
Revelation 14:9-11: Warning to not worship the beast and his followers will have a
mark of allegiance to him.

If the Sabbath is the sign that we worship the Creator God, then another day must be
the sign that we worship the beast.

The genuine comes before the counterfeit. If we can discover what the genuine day of
worship is, then we will be able to detect the counterfeit.

The mark of God’s name is the Sabbath so the mark of the beast’s name must be a rival day:

 “Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast
and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, he himself shall also
drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of His
indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels
and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever;
and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever
receives the mark of his name."

Revelation 7:1-3: God’s people will have a seal.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 261 of 385
“After these things I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the
four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, on the sea, or on any tree.
Then I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God. And he
cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was granted to harm the earth and the
sea, saying, "Do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees till we have sealed the servants of
our God on their foreheads."

Isaiah 66:22, 23: Plagues devastate earth. We will be eyewitnesses.

"For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make shall remain before Me," says
the LORD, "So shall your descendants and your name remain. And it shall come to pass that
from one New Moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to
worship before Me," says the LORD.

Revelation 21:23: Flashlight illustration

“The city had no need of the sun or of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God illuminated
it. The Lamb is its light.”

Revelation 22:2

“In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river, was the tree of life, which bore
twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the
healing of the nations.”

Questions That Come Up

Is the Sabbath today the same Sabbath of creation?
      There is no evidence that there has been an interruption in the sequence of days
       of the week.
      The Sabbath is of critical importance to the Jews and they would never have
       allowed the sequence of days to be lost.
      If Sunday today is the same Sunday, then the Sabbath must be the same Sabbath!
      How do we know that the Sabbath of Christ’s day is the same Sabbath as at
       creation? Simply because Jesus was the Creator and He would not have kept the
       wrong day! If the Sabbath of the days of Christ was not the same day as at creation
       then Jesus, the creator of the Sabbath, would have kept the wrong day!
Does specific day make any difference? Isn’t it enough to just dedicate
one day in seven to the Lord?
      The Fourth Commandment does not say one day in seven or every seventh day
       but rather THE seventh day.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 262 of 385
      No other day can be a memorial of creation because God did not establish any other
       day as the memorial. We can’t celebrate the fourth of July on the fifth. If your
       birthday is on the June 26 you should celebrate it on the 26th. Dates are rooted in
       history.

      God is a particular God and He expects us to obey in the specific way that He has
       commanded.

      In the Garden God did not say: One of the trees. He pointed out the specific tree.

      Nadab and Abihu offered al alternate fire and they were consumed.

      There was a specific formula for the sanctuary incense. God expected the priests to
       follow the formula as He had specified.


Doesn’t the Bible call Sunday the Lord’s Day?
      It is true that the early church fathers referred to Sunday as the Lord’s Day but
       never in the Bible do we find any evidence to this effect.

      23 times in the Bible the Sabbath is called the Sabbath of the LORD and God even
       calls it ‘MY HOLY DAY’!

      Jesus clearly stated that He is the Lord of the Sabbath.
      The word ‘Sunday’ does not appear even once in the Bible.


Isn’t it rather legalistic to keep the Sabbath and isn’t it a yoke of
bondage?
      Not if you love Jesus. If we love the Lord, it will be a delight to suspend all our
       activities to dedicate the day to strengthen our relationship with Him.

      Imagine a husband telling his wife that she should not be so legalistic when it comes
       to being faithful to her!

      Isn’t it rather legalistic to say that I should not steal or bear false witness or worship
       idols, or kill, or covet?

Doesn’t the Bible say that no one can judge me if I don’t keep the
Sabbath?
Here is the text that is used to try and prove this point:

“So let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival or a new moon or
sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 263 of 385
      Hebrews 9:9, 10: The food and drinks have nothing to do with the food we put on
       our table. These verses clearly identify the food and drinks as the meal offering and
       the drink offering that were part of the ceremonial law in the sanctuary.

      There were also seven yearly festivals that pointed forward to events in the life of
       Jesus: Passover, Unleavened Bread, First-fruits, Pentecost, Trumpets, Day of
       Atonement, and Feast of Tabernacles.

      And linked with the seven feasts were seven yearly ceremonial Sabbaths.

      These things were shadows of things to come but the reality is Christ. The weekly
       Sabbath is not a shadow of things to come—it is a memorial of a past event—
       creation!

Isn’t it true that all days belong to God?
      All the money we have belongs to God but 10% is his in a special sense, it is
       holy—it is called the tithe.
      It is true that all days belong to God because He made them but the seventh day
       belongs to Him in a special way because it is holy.
      God did not say that all days are alike. He clearly stated that the Sabbath is holy!

Didn’t Jesus change the day of worship from Sabbath to Sunday?
      Why would He want to change a day that He blessed and made holy?

      The Sabbath points to creation and creation is rooted in the seventh day.

      There is not a shadow of a hint in the New Testament that He ever changed the day.
       It was kept by Jesus, by the women who followed Him, by Peter and by Paul.

      Yes, Jesus resurrected on Sunday but there is no command to keep it by going to
       church on it and there is no statement that it is holy.

      No place are we told that we are to celebrate the resurrection on a weekly basis.

      The Bible describes the Ten Commandments as God’s covenant and Psalm 89:34
       explains: “My covenant I will not break, nor alter the word that has gone out of My
       lips.”

Isn’t the Sabbath a Jewish?
      It is an insult to the Lord to refer to the Sabbath as the Jewish Sabbath when He
       calls it ‘My holy day’.

      The Sabbath does not belong to the Jews because they did not create it. The
       Sabbath belongs to the Lord because He made it.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 264 of 385
     Not even once in all the Bible is the Sabbath called the Jewish Sabbath.

Shouldn’t we keep Sunday in honor of the resurrection of Jesus?
     Six texts simply state that Jesus resurrected on the first day of the week and one of
      the six states that they were gathered, not to celebrate the resurrection, but rather
      for fear of the Jews:

      Mark 16:9:

      “Now when He rose early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary
      Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons.”

      Matthew 28:1:

      “Now after the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to dawn, Mary Magdalene
      and the other Mary came to see the tomb.”

      John 20:1:

      “Now the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early, while it was
      still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.”

      Mark 16:1, 2:

      “Now when the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and
      Salome bought spices, that they might come and anoint Him. Very early in the
      morning, on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen.”

      Luke 24:1, 2:

      “Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they, and certain other
      women with them, came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. 2
      But they found the stone rolled away from the catacomb.”

      John 20:19:

      “Then, the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were
      shut where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in
      the midst, and said to them, "Peace be with you."

      This text clearly gives us the reason why they were gathered there. It was not to
      celebrate the resurrection or the Eucharist but rather ‘’for fear of the Jews’.

      At this point in time they did not even believe that Jesus had resurrected, so how
      could they be gathered to celebrate the resurrection? (Luke 24:9-11; Mark 16, 10-
      13)




      “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 265 of 385
       The Bible tells us what Jesus ate and it was not Communion bread and wine. He ate
       some honey and a portion of a broiled fish (Luke 24:36-43).

       Communion announces the death of Jesus, not His resurrection (Matthew 26:28;
       1Corinthians 11:26).

      There is no divine command to keep Sunday in honor of the resurrection. Nowhere
       are we told that it is holy or that we should go to church on it.

      The sign of Christ’s death and death and resurrection is not Sunday but baptism.

      Jesus could not have celebrated communion with the disciples on resurrection
       Sunday because He had said that he would not drink the cup with His disciples
       until they met in the kingdom (Matthew 26:29).

How can so many people who keep Sunday be wrong?
The simple fact is that the majority throughout history has been wrong. Think of Noah,
Elijah, even Jesus. Even his own disciples forsook Him. He stated that He tread the
winepress alone and there was no one with Him.

Isn’t it enough just to be sincere in keeping Sunday because a person
doesn’t know any better?
There are many sincere and loving Christians who in the course of Christian history have
kept Sunday as the day of rest. They loved the Lord and served Him the best that they
knew how according to the knowledge they had.

James 4:17: “Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.”

Isn’t it enough to just love Jesus?
      It is definitely enough to love Jesus if you define love the way the Bible does.
      John 14:15: “If you love Me, keep My commandments.”

      I John 5:3 “For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments and His
       commandments are not burdensome.”

      1 John 2:3, 4: “Now by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His
       commandments. He who says, "I know Him," and does not keep His commandments,
       is a liar, and the truth is not in him.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 266 of 385
Isn’t it enough to have the Holy Spirit in the life?
Acts 5:32

“And we are His witnesses to these things, and so also is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to
those who obey Him."

John 14:15, 16

"If you love Me, keep My commandments. 16 And I will pray the Father, and He will give
you another Helper, that He may abide with you forever.”

Isn’t it true that man came into existence by evolution and therefore we
can’t trust the Bible story?
      All of the New Testament writers took creation story literally. So at issue is the
       integrity and credibility of Jesus and all the New Testament writers.

      Matthew 19:4-6: Adam and Eve. The apostle Paul referred to the first Adam who
       introduced the sin problem and the last who resolves the problem (1 Corinthians
       15:45).

      I John 3:12 (also Jesus in Matthew 23:35): Cain and Abel

      Hebrews 11:5: Enoch

      Matthew 24:37-39: The flood

      Luke 17:28-32: Sodom and Gomorrah

      Peter even wrote that some in the last days would mock the idea of the second
       coming by stating that they would deny creation and the flood.

Didn’t the apostle Paul instruct us to bring our offering to church on
Sunday?
I Corinthians 16:1: Here is the text:

“Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of
Galatia, so you must do also. On the first day of the week [regularly or systematically] let
each one [individually. personally] of you lay something aside, storing up [privately at
home] as he may prosper [according to God’s blessings], that there be no collections when
I come. 3 And when I come, whomever you approve by your letters I will send to bear your
gift to Jerusalem [not a local church offering].




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 267 of 385
Didn’t the apostle Paul meet with the church on the first day of the
week?
When did this meeting take place? What was the purpose of the meeting?

      It was actually the dark portion of the first day—a Saturday evening meeting.

      It was not a regular meeting but rather a farewell for the Apostle Paul. Because he
       was going to leave the next morning. The meeting in Quibdo (Acts 20:13, 14, 37,
       38).

      If Sunday was the day of worship, why didn’t Paul stay and go to Church on Sunday
       morning? Why did he travel 35 miles to the port city of Assos to board a ship?

      He broke bread (used of a common meal) and ate, not the members.

Sunday is the exact opposite as the Sabbath. It stands at the other extreme of the calendar.
The genuine always comes before the counterfeit.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 268 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr


   LESSON #14 – REFLECTIONS ON DANIEL 11

Introduction
There is a passage in the book of Daniel which has always been a subject of lively
discussion among Adventist theologians, Daniel 11:40-45. Until recently most agreed that
the king of the north represents the papacy and the king of the south represents atheism or
secularism. But now a new view has appeared on the horizon that sees radical Islam as
playing a significant role in the fulfillment of this prophecy. Those who have embraced this
view have concluded that the events of 9/11 and the war against Al-Qaeda are so
significant that they must be contemplated somewhere in Bible prophecy. This has sparked
a new interest in the study of the fifth and sixth trumpets in conjunction with Daniel 11:40-
45.
Usually Ellen White has provided valuable guidance in the interpretation of difficult
prophetic passages. But unlike other passages in the book of Daniel Ellen White seems to
be silent on the meaning of most of chapter eleven, particularly verses 40-45. Nowhere, to
my knowledge does she ever quote these verses or even echo the terminology contained
in them.
This seeming silence on verses 40-45 has led some to conclude that Ellen White had
nothing to say about them. We therefore ask: Did Ellen White have anything to say about
the meaning of these verses or does her apparent silence indicate that their meaning would
remain a mystery until long after her death? In this article we will seek to answer this
question.

Ellen White’s Use of Daniel 11
To my knowledge there are only three primary Ellen G. White references to Daniel 11
(except for the one in A Word to the Little Flock Scattered Abroad to which we will make
reference later).
One of these references is indirect, one is general in nature and another is quite specific.
Only in the specific reference does Ellen White actually quote any verses from the chapter



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 269 of 385
(verses 30-36). Unfortunately, as stated before, she never quotes nor does she even allude
to the language of verses 40-45 so it would seem well-nigh impossible to know if or how
Ellen White understood them.

Ellen White’s Three Quotations
The first quotation is indirect because she does not specifically mention Daniel 11 but only
alludes to it (all bold type is mine unless specified). In 1896 she wrote:
“The light that Daniel received from God was given especially for these last days. The visions
he saw by the banks of the Ulai [Daniel 8:2] and the Hiddekel [Daniel 10:4 and chapter
11], the great rivers of Shinar, are now in process of fulfillment, and all the events foretold
will soon come to pass.” Testimonies to Ministers, p. 112
The second quotation is general and was written in 1909:
“The world is stirred with the spirit of war. The prophecy of the eleventh chapter of Daniel
has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Soon the scenes of trouble spoken of in the
prophecies will take place.” 9T, p. 14
The third quotation was written in 1904 and is the only one where Ellen White actually
quotes verses from Daniel 11:
“We have no time to lose. Troublous times are before us. The world is stirred with the spirit of
war. Soon the scenes of trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take place. The prophecy in
the eleventh of Daniel has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Much of the history
that has taken place in fulfillment of this prophecy will be repeated. In the thirtieth verse a
power is spoken of that "shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy
covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that forsake the
holy covenant." [Verses 31-36, quoted] Scenes similar to those described in these words
will take place.” Manuscript Releases, volume 13, p. 394 (Letter 103, 1904)

Analysis of Ellen White’s References to Daniel 11
We must now examine more closely the three quotations above:
The quotation from Testimonies to Ministers, p. 112 (1896) provides two key items of
information:
      First, the prophecies of Daniel eight and eleven run concurrently and are parallel.
       The prophecy by the Ulai was the one given in chapter 8 (Daniel 8:2) and the one by
       the Hiddekel was the one given in chapters 10 and 11 (Daniel 10:4).

      Second, both of these prophecies were in the process of fulfillment when Ellen
       White wrote in 1896. Unfortunately, Ellen White does not specify how much of the
       chapter had already been fulfilled when she wrote the statement. She merely stated
       that these prophecies were in the process of fulfillment.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 270 of 385
The quotation in Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, p. 14, adds some very valuable
information: When Ellen White wrote this testimony in 1909 she stated that the prophecy
of Daniel 11 had nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Thus we can be certain that in
1909 the process of fulfillment of Daniel 11 was in the last few verses of the chapter.
The quotation from Manuscript Releases, volume 13, p. 394 (1904) contains some
significant information that is not found in the other two.
In this statement Ellen White explains that much of the history that had taken place in the
fulfillment of this chapter will be repeated. The critical question then is this: Which
history was she referring to? Fortunately, we don’t have to guess because she immediately
quotes verses 30-36. Then, right after she quotes these verses, she again repeats the
thought that much of the history that has occurred in fulfillment of their fulfillment will be
repeated when she wrote:
“Scenes similar to those described in these words will take place.”
Clearly Ellen White understood that verses 30-36 (as well as verses 37-39 which she does
not quote) had already been fulfilled in the past when she wrote. If verses 30-39 had
already been fulfilled in the past, then the similar future scenes must be described in verses
40-45. Thus verses 30-39 describe events in the past while verses 40-45 describe events in
the future.
It is important to realize that Ellen White is not saying that these verses have a dual
fulfillment, one past and the other future. What she is saying is that much of the history
that fulfilled these verses will be repeated. Stated another way, it is not the prophecy in
verses 30-39 that will be fulfilled once again but rather much of the history that fulfilled
the prophecy in the past will be repeated in similar fashion in the future.

A Repetition of History
At this juncture in our study we must ask: Why will the historical scenes of the past repeat
once again in similar fashion? The answer is not hard to find. The arrogant and
persecuting power that is described in verses 30-39 is the Roman Catholic papacy as it
behaved during its 1260-year career. During this period, it joined church and state, ran
loose and used the sword of the state to persecute dissenters.
As is well known, at the end of the 1260 years the papacy received a deadly wound when
the state turned against it at the conclusion of the French Revolution. But this was not the
end of the papacy’s career. Prophecy predicts that after a period of convalescence the
deadly wound will be healed (Revelation 13:3) when the United States will return the
sword of civil power into the papacy’s hand. Then the papacy will behave once more as it
did in the past. Thus the history of the past papal oppression will be repeated in the future
because the papacy will rise once again to power.
In summary: Ellen White believed that Daniel 11:30-36 was fulfilled in the past (and as
we shall see, also verses 37-39 though she does not specifically quote them). She also



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 271 of 385
believed that much of the history described in these verses would be repeated in similar
fashion. If verses 30-39 had already been fulfilled in the past in Ellen White’s day, then the
future repetition of the history of these verses must be found in verses 40-45.
Notice the following three quotations on the past and future role of the papacy:
“The influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is still far from
being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power. "I saw one of his heads
as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered
after the beast" Verse 3. GC, p. 579
“When our nation [the United States] shall so abjure the principles of its government as to
enact a Sunday law, Protestantism will in this act join hands with popery; it will be nothing
else that giving life [which means that it must have been dead] to the tyranny which has
long been eagerly watching its opportunity to spring again [which means that the active
despotism that existed before died only to live again] into active [which means that for
a period the tyranny was inactive] despotism.” 5T, p. 712
“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they might worship
him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land over which for long years the
shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land which God has favored by making it the
depository of the pure religion of Christ—when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure
the principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with
God's law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants will
throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a national act
enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor [which means that the corrupt
faith of Rome must have been dead for a period] to the corrupt faith of Rome, reviving
[which means that her tyranny and oppression of conscience were dead for a while] her
tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to work in mighty power
for the vindication of his truth.” ST June 12, 1893
In the light of the foregoing analysis we can safely conclude that the repetition of the scenes
of the past career of the papacy which are described in verses 30-39 will be repeated once
again in similar fashion in verses 40-45.

Ellen White’s View of Daniel 12:1, 2
But, does Ellen White have anything to say about the events that are described in verses
40-45? Where would we even begin to look if she never quotes these verses or even
alludes to their terminology? I believe the key that will unlock her understanding of these
verses is found in her understanding of Daniel 12:1. Though Ellen White never quoted or
even alluded to the language of Daniel 11:40-45 in the book The Great Controversy, she did
quote the very next verse, Daniel 12:1. I believe that the place where she quotes Daniel
12:1 contains the key that unlocks her understanding of the immediately preceding verses.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 272 of 385
Working Deductively
Because Ellen White did not quote or even allude to the terminology of verses 40-45 in The
Great Controversy, we cannot work from verse 40 forwards because we don’t know where
her comments on verse 40 are found. What we must do then is work deductively from
Daniel 12:1, 2 backwards.
Let’s take a look at Daniel 12:1, 2:
"At that time [1] Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over the sons of
your people; and there shall be a [2] time of trouble, such as never was since there was a
nation, even to that time. And at that time your people [3] shall be delivered, everyone who
is found written in the book. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth [4] shall
awake, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt.”
The bold type indicates that there are four sequential events in Daniel 12:1, 2:
      The standing up of Michael
      The time of trouble
      The deliverance of God’s people
      The special resurrection
Now let’s notice how Ellen G. White developed these four events in The Great Controversy
but in reverse order beginning with the fourth item on the list, the special resurrection
and working backwards:
      GC, p. 637: Ellen White quotes Daniel 12:2 to describe the fourth item on the list,
       the special resurrection.
       “Graves are opened, and "many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth. . . awake,
       some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt." Daniel 12:2.”
      GC, p. 635: Ellen White describes the third item on the list. The chapter’s title is
       ‘God’s People Delivered’. At the beginning of the chapter she states:
       “The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the forests
       and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every quarter companies
       of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels are preparing for the work of death. It is
       now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of Israel will interpose for the
       deliverance of His chosen.”
       It will be noticed also that Ellen White concluded the previous chapter (‘The Time of
       Trouble’) with a clear allusion to Daniel 12:1 where we are told that those who are
       written in the book will be delivered:
       “Glorious will be the deliverance of those who have patiently waited for His coming
       and whose names are written in the book of life.” GC, p. 634
      GC, p. 616: Ellen White describes the second item on the list by explaining the time
       of trouble through which God’s people will go:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 273 of 385
       “The people of God will then be plunged into those scenes of affliction and distress
       described by the prophet as the time of Jacob's trouble.”
      GC, p. 613: Ellen White begins the chapter on the ‘Time of Trouble’ by quoting
       Daniel 12:1 and then amplifies the meaning of the standing up of Michael, the first
       item on the list.
       “Then Jesus ceases His intercession in the sanctuary above. . . When He leaves the
       sanctuary, darkness covers the inhabitants of the earth. In that fearful time the
       righteous must live in the sight of a holy God without an intercessor.”

Summary of Ellen White’s Comments on Daniel 12:1, 2

      GC, p. 613: The standing up of Michael
      GC, p. 616: The time of trouble
      GC, p. 635: God’s people delivered
      GC, p. 637: The special resurrection
It will be noticed that Ellen White in The Great Controversy develops the events of Daniel
12:1, 2 in the precise order in which they appear in Daniel 12:1, 2.

Importance of the Expression ‘at that time’
It is extremely important to realize that Daniel 12:1, 2 cannot be understood independently
of its context. Daniel 12:1, 2 is actually a continuation of the flow of events that transpired
in the previous verses. This is clearly indicated by the fact that Daniel 12:1 begins with a
time reference, “at that time” which links Daniel 12:1 with what occurred previously in
verses 40-45.
Now the key question is: Where would we expect to find Ellen White’s comments about
what takes place before Daniel 12:1? The answer is unmistakable: It must be found in the
pages that immediately precede the chapter on the standing up of Michael and the time of
trouble.

The Literary Structure of Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1
Now let’s carefully consider the literary structure of Daniel 11:44b-45 as it relates to Daniel
12:1 in order to ascertain to what event the expression “at that time” refers to. A
comparison of these two passages reveals that they are describing the same events in the
same order but with a different terminology and emphasis:
Daniel 11:44b-45:
   A. The King of the North goes out to destroy and annihilate many (11:44b).
   B. The King of the North sets up the tents of his palace in a strategic place between
      the sea and the glorious holy mountain to give a final death blow (11:45a).
   C. The King of the North comes to his end with none to help him (11:45b).




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 274 of 385
Daniel 12:1
   A. Michael stands up to defend His people (parallel to 11:44b).
   B. A time of trouble such as never was ensues (parallel to 11:45a).
   C. God’s people are delivered (parallel to 11:45b).
Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1 are precisely parallel but they portray a different emphasis.
Whereas Daniel 11:44b-45 highlights the activities of the king of the north and its destiny
for oppressing God’s people, Daniel 12:1 focuses on the jeopardy of God’s people at the
hand of the king of the north and their deliverance by God.
This is the way that it works out: When the king of the north goes “out with great fury to
destroy and annihilate many” (11:44b), Michael will stand up to protect and defend them
(12:1a). When the king of the north places the tents of his palace in a strategic location to
deliver the final death blow against God’s people (11:45a; vividly described in GC 635),
they will go through a terrible time of trouble such as never was (12:1b), but the king of the
north will “come to his end with none to help him” (11:45b) when God intervenes to
deliver His people who are written in the book (12:1c). The expression “at that time” thus
links Daniel 11:44b-45 with Daniel 12:1. The actions of the king of the north against the
remnant are answered by counteractions by God in defense of His faithful remnant.

What About Daniel 11:44A?
But what about Daniel 11:44a? Here we are told that ‘tidings from the north and from the
east will trouble the king of the north’. This phrase explains the reason why the king of the
north will go out and attempt to destroy and annihilate many:
“But news from the east and the north shall trouble [alarm or disturb] him [the king of the
north]; therefore, he [the king of the north] shall go out with great fury to destroy and
annihilate many.”
What is this news from the east and the north that so infuriates the king of the north that
he seeks to destroy ‘many’? We must go to the book of Revelation for the answer because
we are told that the book of Daniel is unsealed by the book of Revelation:
“The books of Daniel and the Revelation are one. One is a prophecy, the other a revelation;
one a book sealed, the other a book opened.” Christ Triumphant, p. 344
Revelation 7:2 describes an angel who ascends from the east having the seal of the living
God. This angel comes to seal the faithful of God upon their foreheads. In contrast, the land
beast will impose the mark of the beast on pain of death to those who refuse it (Revelation
13:15, 16)
Revelation 18:1-5 portrays a powerful angel who descends from heaven (the north
according to Isaiah 14:13) and gives a clarion call for God’s people to reject the mark of the
beast and to get out of Babylon before she is destroyed.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 275 of 385
Thus the tidings from the north and from the east are identified by the book of Revelation
as the message of the sealing and the call to come out of Babylon.
Ellen White concurs with this Biblical view. The chapter immediately preceding the one on
the standing up of Michael and the time of trouble is titled “The Final Warning.” Ellen White
begins this chapter in GC 603 by quoting Revelation 18:1, 2, 4 and 5. In perfect accordance
with Revelation 7:2 she then described on page 605 the issue that will divide the world:
“While the observance of the false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state, contrary to
the fourth commandment, will be an avowal of allegiance to a power that is in opposition to
God, the keeping of the true Sabbath, in obedience to God's law, is an evidence of loyalty to the
Creator. While one class, by accepting the sign of submission to earthly powers, receive the
mark of the beast, the other choosing the token of allegiance to divine authority, receive the
seal of God.” GC, p. 605
In the same chapter Ellen White goes on to describe the anger that this message will cause
in the religious world:
“The power attending the message will only madden those who oppose it.” GC, p. 607
And in the next chapter Ellen White flashes back to events that occurred before the time of
trouble:
“The power attending the last warning has enraged the wicked; their anger is kindled
against all who have received the message, and Satan will excite to still greater intensity
the spirit of hatred and persecution.” GC, pp. 614, 615
Thus the news from the north is identified in Revelation 18 as the Loud Cry of the angel
who descends from heaven (the north) and the news from the east is the message
concerning the seal of God in Revelation 7. This message from the north and the east that is
described in Daniel 11:44a fills the king of the north with fury to the point of wanting to
destroy God’s remnant as described in Daniel 11:44b.

The Beginning Point of Daniel 11:40-45
We have focused in this article primarily on the events from Daniel 11:44 to Daniel 12:2.
But if we continued moving backwards in The Great Controversy (before page 603) we
would find, in reverse order, that Ellen White expounds upon each phrase of Daniel 11:40-
45 ending with the chapter on “The Bible and the French Revolution” where the deadly
wound of Daniel 11:40a is described (GC 265-288). Though she does not employ the
terminology of verses 40-45 the sequence of events clearly reveals that she is discussing
these verses.
In Daniel 11:40a we are told that the king of the south would push at the king of the north
at the time of the end. Ellen White clearly identifies the beginning of the time of the end as
the year 1798 when France dealt the papacy its deadly wound (GC, p. 356). The word ‘push’
does not adequately portray the idea of the text. The historical event that is described by
this word was not a friendly nudge or shove. The NIV translates: “will engage him in battle’


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 276 of 385
while the ESV translates “shall attack him’. That is, in the year 1798 some power described
as the king of the south would attack the king of the north.
There is a wide consensus among students of prophecy in the Seventh-day Adventist
Church that the king of the north represents the papacy and until recently there was a
broad consensus that the king of the south represents secularism as it was manifested in
the French Revolution. But times have changed and some Adventist preachers, as they look
at current events, are reinterpreting the king of the south as a symbol of militant Islam.
Literally and geographically speaking the king of the south was Egypt because Egypt was
the kingdom that was south of Israel (see Daniel 11:5, 8). But in the end time we are not
dealing with literal geographical locations but rather with global systems.
Who is the king of the south, symbolically speaking? I believe that Revelation 11 (which is
linked with the fifth and sixth trumpets) clearly identifies France as ‘spiritual Egypt’ (verse
8). While Babylon represents a global apostate religious system, Egypt symbolizes the
secular powers of the world that threw off the yoke of papal Rome beginning with France.
Revelation 17 explains that for a very short while at the end of time the secular powers of
the world will once again join together in unholy wedlock with the harlot but in the end
the kings of the earth will hate the Babylonian harlot and destroy her.
Babylon was the literal and geographical king of the north in Biblical times because it was
the enemy that invaded literal Israel from the literal north. But today the king of the north
is a global spiritual system of counterfeit religion—the Roman Catholic papacy. The
papacy is certainly not literally north of literal Israel (it is actually west). We must
therefore interpret the king of the north and the king of the south symbolically.
And what was the main characteristic of France in 1798? The spirit of the French
Revolution was atheism but actually Daniel 11:40a involves far more than atheism. The
genius of the Revolution culminating with the captivity of Pope Pius VI was to secularize
the government and separate it from its adulterous relationship with the church. In the
course of several decades after the French Revolution country after country in Europe
established secular governments separate from the dominance of the papacy.
In 1862 Cardinal Henry Edward Manning complained about how the secular governments
of Europe had forsaken the papacy:
“’See this Catholic Church, this Church of God, feeble and weak, rejected even by the very
nations called Catholic. There is Catholic France, and Catholic Germany, and Catholic Italy
giving up this exploded figment of the temporal power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ.’ And so,
because the Church seems weak, and the Vicar of the Son of God is renewing the Passion of
his Master upon earth, therefore we are scandalized, therefore we turn our faces from him.”
(The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 140, 141)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 277 of 385
Ellen White has stated why the papacy has not been able to ascend to power once more:
“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome be reinstated
in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and persecution.”
GC, p. 564

Beginning and Ending Point
So we have the following beginning and ending points for Daniel 11:40-45 in The Great
Controversy:
Daniel 11:40a; GC, pp. 265-288:
France ‘attacks’ the papacy and inflicts the deadly wound. The illicit love relationship
between church and state is severed and thus the papacy is restrained.
Daniel 11:40b-11:43; GC, pp. 289-605:
These verses describe events that transpire between the infliction of the deadly wound in
1798 and the Loud Cry.
Daniel 11:44a; GC, p. 605: The Loud Cry and sealing message trouble and enrage the
papacy.
Daniel 11:44b; 12:1a; GC, p. 607 (flashback to the past in GC pp. 614, 615):
The rage of the wicked increases as the Loud Cry and sealing message is proclaimed.
Michael stands up, closing the door of probation and defending His people from the rage of
the wicked
Daniel 11:45a; 12:1b; GC, p. 613ff:
A universal death decree against God’s people is signed as the king of the north sets up his
tents in a strategic position to deliver the final death blow against God’s people. This causes
a time of trouble for God’s people such as never has been.
Daniel 11:45b; 121c; GC, p. 635ff:
The king of the north comes to his end with none to help him because his supporters
forsake him and as a result God’s people are delivered.
Daniel 12:2; GC, p. 637:
The special resurrection of those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message.
Thus the two reference points for the beginning and ending of Daniel 11:40-45 are the
French Revolution at the beginning as described in GC, pp. 265-288 and the deliverance of
God’s people and the special resurrection in GC, pp. 635, 637. In between these two
reference points we have the events that Ellen White describes in GC, pp. 289-604. A
careful study of these pages will reveal that Ellen White comments on all the details in
verses 40b-43 without actually using the language.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 278 of 385
Ellen G. White and Islam
It is simply amazing how Ellen White vividly describes the events of Daniel 11:40-45
without ever quoting the verses or alluding to the language. Why didn’t she just come out
and quote the verses and then comment on them? There is a clear historical reason.
The original view of the pioneers was that the king of the north represents the Roman
Catholic papacy. This is the clear view expressed in the pamphlet A Word to the Little Flock
Scattered Abroad, coauthored by James and Ellen White in 1847. But in the early 1870’s
Uriah Smith (who was the highly respected editor of the Advent Review and Sabbath
Herald) changed the view of the pioneers by reinterpreting the king of the north as
Turkey. You see, in Smith’s day Turkey was prominent in the news so he changed the
traditional view to fit current events.
James White was flabbergasted by Smith’s new view and accused him of removing one of
the landmarks of the Advent Movement. Things started getting nasty and members began
taking sides. In this context, Ellen White instructed her husband to desist of his criticism.
She knew that an understanding of Daniel 11:40-45 was not a matter of life and death at
that time. Her main concern at the moment was to preserve the unity of the church. If Ellen
White had quoted the verses of Daniel 11:40-45 and offered a view contradictory to Uriah
Smith’s, she would have been accused of nepotism so she commented on these verses
without quoting them or alluding to the language knowing full well that someday someone
would discover her view of the matter.
Significantly, in the eschatological portion of The Great Controversy, Ellen White does not
mention Islam, even once, as playing any role in the fulfillment of Bible prophecy in the end
time. It appears that Ellen White saw no prophetic significance to the rise of radical
Islam. The same is true of the great chain prophecies of Scripture. There is no reference to
Islam in the prophecies of Daniel 2, Daniel 7, Daniel 8 and 9, Revelation 12, Revelation 13,
Matthew 24 and Revelation 17 neither is there any reference to Islam in the series of the
churches and the seals
Ellen White’s silence on the role of Islam in Bible prophecy has puzzled some Seventh-day
Adventist scholars who have concluded that Ellen White simply did not have all the light on
end time events. At least one of these scholars has even reached the conclusion that Ellen
White was wrong in her interpretation of the little horn as a symbol of the papacy and has
reinterpreted it as Islam.
Don’t get me wrong. I am not saying that Islam might not play a role in the precipitation of
end time events as they are described in The Great Controversy. It is true that Islam might
serve as the catalyst for the fulfillment of Bible prophecies concerning the United States
and the papacy, but I do not believe that the rising power of militant Islam is contemplated
directly by prophecy itself.
That is to say, in the light of the Biblical evidence I do not believe that radical Islam fulfills
any specific end time prophecy but very well could serve as the catalyst for the fulfillment


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 279 of 385
of prophecy. After all, radical Islam has brought the United States to prominence and has
led it to flex its military muscles, it has made the curtailing of our civil and religious
liberties easier and it has also misdirected the eyes of Christians (and even a few Seventh-
day Adventists) to the Middle East for the fulfillment of prophecy thus hiding from view the
powers that will play a role in end time events, the papacy and apostate Protestantism.
Time has proven that Uriah Smith’s reinterpretation of the king of the north was wrong.
Will we learn from his mistake? Will we ever learn that the best way to understand
prophecy is not to read the newspapers or to watch CNN but rather to study our Bibles?




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 280 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    LESSON #15 – DECODING THE MYSTERIES
             OF REVELATION 17
Introductory Matters

The book of Revelation is saturated with exotic imagery. This imagery, known as
apocalyptic, was part of the lingua franca of that day. In order to comprehend this bizarre
imagery, we must walk in the shoes of the people of that time. That is, we must
understand the symbols as they did and not as we would in the twenty-first century.
Revelation 17 is one of the most complex and intellectually challenging chapters in the
book of Revelation. It contains vivid symbols, mysterious numbers and strange
expressions. It is like a giant jigsaw puzzle with each symbol being a piece of the puzzle.
Before we can put the puzzle together we must first carefully analyze the shape of each
piece to see where it fits within the puzzle as a whole. Fortunately for us, the first part of
the vision (verses 1-8) is explained in great detail by the interpreting angel in the second
part (verses 9-18).

Signs and Wisdom
We are told in Revelation 1:1 that the book of Revelation was signified to John. The root
word behind the verb ‘signified’ is ‘sign’. This indicates that the book of Revelation was
given to John in sign language and sign language is symbolic language. This means that
the symbols must be decoded or deciphered in order to ascertain the book’s message.
In order to understand the symbolic language of Revelation 17, we must have wisdom
(Revelation 17:9) and wisdom comes only from God (James 1:5). It is not enough to study
Revelation 17. We must pray that God will give us supernatural wisdom from on high to
understand it.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 281 of 385
The Angel of Revelation 17
Revelation 16 describes seven angels who pour out the seven last plagues upon the earth.
The vision in Revelation 17 was given to John by one of those seven angels who had the
seven plagues (Revelation 17:1; 16:12). The question that begs to be asked is: Which of
the seven plague angels in Revelation 16 comes back to speak with John in Revelation 17?
The answer to this question is not hard to find. The harlot of Revelation 17 is described as a
woman sitting upon many waters (17:1) and on her forehead is found the inscription:
“MYSTERY: BABYLON THE GREAT” (17:5). She is also said to be that “great city which
reigns over the kings of the earth.” (Revelation 17:18). That is to say, the ‘harlot’ and the
‘city’ are interchangeable terms.
What was the name of the river that ran through the ancient city of Babylon? The answer
to this question is provided by a geographical study of the region as well as by Scripture.
The ancient city of Babylon sat upon the many waters of the river Euphrates (Jeremiah
51:12, 13). This means that we must look for the bowl angel who refers to the river
Euphrates and that bowl angel is the sixth (Revelation 16:12). In other words, the angel
who poured out the sixth plague upon the river Euphrates in Revelation 16:12-16 came
back to John in chapter 17 and further explained and expanded the meaning of that same
plague in Revelation 17. In short, Revelation 17 is an explanation and amplification of
Revelation 16:12-16.

The Harlot Woman (17:1)
The harlot woman is the main protagonist in the story of Revelation 17. She sits on the
waters, on the dragon beast and on the heads. She fornicates with the kings of the earth.
She gives wine to the nations. She sheds the blood of the saints. She has dominion over
the nations and she is eventually hated by the ten kings who are described as being on the
seventh head of the dragon beast. So, what does this harlot woman represent?
In the Old Testament a harlot woman was a symbol of apostate Israel (Ezekiel 16:15, 16).
Ellen White explains that the harlot of Revelation 17 symbolizes an apostate church—the
Roman Catholic papacy.
“In Revelation 17 Babylon is represented as a woman --a figure which is used in the Bible as
the symbol of a church, a virtuous woman representing a pure church, a vile woman an
apostate church.” GC, p. 381.
The harlot woman of Revelation 17 represents apostate religion which has climbed on the
back of the civil powers of the world with the purpose of using them to persecute God’s
faithful people.
The harlot woman at the stage in which she appears in Revelation 17 represents the
apostate Roman Catholic system. But the meaning of the symbol is broader. We shall find
that apostate religion actually allied itself with seven consecutive world civil powers




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 282 of 385
beginning with Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon and ending with a resuscitated Papacy after the
deadly wound is healed.

Her Fornication (17:2; 18:3)
If the harlot represents apostate religion, then her fornication with the kings of the earth
must mean that she joins church and state. As much is confirmed by Ellen White:
“It was by departure from the Lord, and alliance with the heathen, that the Jewish church
became a harlot; and Rome, corrupting herself in like manner by seeking the support of
worldly powers, receives a like condemnation.” GC, p. 382
“Whenever the church has obtained secular power, she has employed it to punish dissent
from her doctrines. Protestant churches that have followed in the steps of Rome by forming
alliance with worldly powers have manifested a similar desire to restrict liberty of
conscience.” GC, p. 443

The Act of Sitting (17:1)
The Babylonian harlot is said to sit on many waters (17:1, 15), on a scarlet beast (17:3)
and on the seven mountains (17:9). How is it possible for the harlot to sit upon all three of
these at the same time? We shall answer this very important question a little later on in our
study.
This act of sitting means that the harlot not only rules over the kings of the earth (17:18)
but also over every tribe, tongue and nation (13:7).

The Waters (17:1)
The waters upon which the harlot sits are clearly identified as ‘multitudes, nations,
tongues and peoples’ (17:15). Later on in this study we will find that the body of the
dragon beast upon which the harlot sits is actually composed of waters over which she
rules.
According to the prophet Isaiah the nations make a noise like the noise of the seas and a
rushing like the rushing of many waters (Isaiah 17:12, 13).
Waters Dried up
A careful comparison of Revelation 12, 13, and 17 reveals that the persecuting waters upon
which the woman sits were dried up once in the past (when the fifth head was wounded
in 1798) and they will be dried up once again in the future (when the seventh head is
wounded at the time of the sixth plague). Let’s take a look at these two occasions.
The Perspective of Revelation 12: The waters were dried up toward the end of the
1260 years of persecution against the woman.
      In Revelation 12:15 we are informed that the dragon spewed water out of its
       mouth (singular) for 1260 days/years with the intention of drowning the woman.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 283 of 385
       But Revelation 12:16 states that the persecuting waters were dried up by the
       earth.
      After a time of respite during which the waters are dry, persecution ceases.
       However, we are told that the dragon will be enraged with the woman once more
       and will spew waters out of its mouth against the remnant of the woman’s Seed,
       that is, against the remnant of Jesus (Revelation 12:17).
       Note: In Joshua 24:2, 3, 14, 15 the Euphrates River is described under the
       euphemism of “the Flood.” Genesis 15:18 depicts the Euphrates as “the great
       River” (see also Isaiah 8:7, 8; 17:12, 13; 59:19). Thus in Revelation 12 we are to
       understand the River (with the definite article in the Greek) or Flood that the
       dragon spews out his mouth as the River Euphrates.
The Perspective of Revelation 13:1-10: The Beast is wounded at the end of the 42
months of persecution against the woman.
      Revelation 13 depicts a similar scenario to the one that we found in Revelation 12.
       Revelation 13:7 describes a sea beast that persecutes the saints for 42 months (the
       same period as the 1260 days/years). At the end of this period the beast received a
       deadly wound with the sword (Revelation 13:10) and persecution against the
       woman ceased for a season.
      According to Romans 13:4, the sword belongs to the civil rulers. After a period of
       convalescence, the deadly wound of the sea beast is healed (the waters flow again)
       and the whole world wonders after the beast (Revelation 13:3, 11-18).
       Note: Some wonder whether the beast was actually killed or only mortally
       wounded. The expression “as it were wounded to death” (13:3) is identical to the
       description of Jesus as a Lamb “as it had been slain” (5:5). No one would sustain
       that Jesus was not killed! Revelation 13:10 leaves no doubt that the beast was killed
       with the sword (13:10). It is very important to remember that when the head is
       dead, the beast is dead but when the head is alive, the beast is alive (cf.
       Revelation 13:12, 14).

Revelation 16: The final drying up at the end of the Time of Trouble:
      As stated above, when the deadly wound is healed and the papacy is released from
       her prison, the persecuting waters of the symbolic Euphrates will inundate once
       more (Revelation 13:3) with the intention of drowning God’s remnant people.
      We found a similar scenario in Revelation 12. After the earth helps the woman by
       drying up the persecuting waters, the dragon is enraged with the remnant of her
       seed and launches a deadly persecution against them (Revelation 12:17).
      But we are told in Revelation 16:12 that the raging waters of the Euphrates will be
       dried up, that is, the beast will once again receive a final deadly wound when the
       seventh head is wounded.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 284 of 385
       And Revelation 17 explains that the kings over whom the harlot ruled will hate her
        and make her naked, eat her flesh and burn her with fire (Revelation 17:16). Once
        again, the sword of civil power that the harlot used to kill God’s people will turn
        against her repeating events globally that will be similar in character to the
        French Revolution.

The Perspective of Daniel 11:40-45
Though this passage falls outside the immediate scope of our present study, a few remarks
might be helpful.
       Daniel 11:31-39 describes the king of the north persecuting the saints and doing
        his will for [1260] ‘days’ (11:33).
       But when the ‘days’ are over (at the time of the end in 1798) the king of the south
        rises against him and wounds him (11:40).
       The king of the north then recovers from his wound and rises like a mighty
        tempest to flood and overflow the world (11:40-44).
       But at the apex of his power he comes to his end and has no one to help him
        (11:45). This is another way of saying that the waters which helped the king of the
        north will dry up on him!
It does not take much of an imagination to see the link between Daniel 11 and Revelation
12, 13 and 17. Notice the following comparison:
The waters flowed during the 1260 days/42 months/time, times and dividing of
time:
        Revelation 13:5, 7 depicts the beast [the King of the North] persecuting the
         saints and ruling for 42 months.
        Revelation 12:13-15 describes this same period of persecution but with different
         symbolism. The dragon spews flood waters out of his mouth to overflow the
         woman (the faithful church) for 3.5 times.


The waters were dried up at the end of the 1260 days, 42 months/time, times and
dividing of time:
        At the time of the end, the beast [the King of the North] received a deadly wound
         (Revelation 13:3).
        Toward the end of the 1260 days/years, the dragon’s persecuting flood waters
         were dried up (Revelation 12:16). The drying up of the waters represents the
         same event as the deadly wound.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 285 of 385
The waters will flow again and will be dried up for the last time:
        After a period of respite, the beast’s deadly wound is healed and the floodwaters
         flow once more thus threatening the very existence of God’s remnant people
         (12:17; 13:11-18).
        Finally, when the spiritual Euphrates is at flood stage, God will dry it up and
         deliver his people (Revelation 16:12-16; see also Daniel 12:1).
In summary, the sequence in Daniel 11 and Revelation 12, 13 and 17 is as follows:
        Flood (1260 or 42 months of papal dominion: 538-1798)
        Waters dried up (Papacy loses the support of the state in 1798 and the wound is
         kept in place by the United States)
        Flood (deadly wound healed: The papacy gains the support of the state through the
         agency of the United States)
        Waters dried up (Papacy loses world support during the sixth plague)

The Harlot’s Name
The harlot’s name is Babylon and she is the mother of harlots (17:5).
If the harlot is the mother of harlots, then she must have daughters that were born from
her at some point in the past. Her daughters are also described as the false prophet or the
lamb-horned beast (Revelation 13:11; 16:13. Compare with the story of Elijah in the Old
Testament and the story of the martyrdom of John the Baptist).
The Protestant churches that were born from Roman Catholicism in the sixteenth
century failed to fully sever their relationship with their harlot mother. Instead of
completing the Reformation, they fell into an ever deeper apostasy, teaching many of their
mother’s false doctrines. The book of Revelation clearly teaches that the daughters will
be as anxious to join church and state as did their mother.
“Babylon is said to be "the mother of harlots." By her daughters must be symbolized churches
that cling to her doctrines and traditions, and follow her example of sacrificing the truth and
the approval of God, in order to form an unlawful alliance with the world.” GC, pp. 382, 383
At Vatican Council II Pope John XXIII and Paul VI referred to the Catholic Church as the
Mother and the Protestant churches as her alienated children:
Words of John XXIII at the opening of Vatican Council II (1962-1965):
“. . . She [the Roman Catholic Church] to be an affectionate, kind and patient mother, she is
moved by compassion and goodness towards her alienated children.” (Ernesto Balducci,
John: The Transitional Pope, transl., Dorothy White [New York: Hill Book Company, 1964], p.
269.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 286 of 385
Words of Pope Paul VI during the council:
“Because of their position, separated brethren are the object of deep and tender affection on
the part of the Mother Church. . . It is a love that feels grief and sadness, the love of a heart
wounded by estrangement, because the estrangement prevents our brethren from enjoying so
many privileges and rights, and makes them lose so much grace. But perhaps for this very
reason its love is all the deeper and more burning. . .” Cardinal Augustin Bea, The Unity of
Christians, ed., Bernard Leeming [New York: Herder and Herder, 1963], p. 140
Thus Revelation 17 describes a wicked three-fold alliance between the harlot, her
daughters and the kings of the earth. This trilogy is described in Revelation 16:13 as the
dragon, the beast and the false prophet.
In another extremely significant statement Ellen White explains:
“I saw that the two-horned beast had a dragon's mouth, and that his power was in his head,
and that the decree would go out of his mouth [very interesting in the light of Revelation
12:15]. Then I saw the Mother of Harlots; that the mother was not the daughters, but
separate and distinct from them [this seems to indicate that Catholicism and
Protestantism cover the period of two separate heads on the beast of Revelation 17].
She has had her day, and it is past [during the 1260 years], and her daughters, the
Protestant sects, were the next to come on the stage and act out the same mind [notice the
allusion to Revelation 17] that the mother had when she persecuted the saints [during the
1260 years]. I saw that as the mother has been declining in power, the daughters had been
growing, and soon they will exercise the power once exercised by the mother [this can be
seen clearly today].
I saw the nominal church and nominal Adventists, like Judas, would betray us to the Catholics
to obtain their influence to come against the truth. The saints then will be an obscure people,
little known to the Catholics; but the churches and nominal Adventists who know of our faith
and customs (for they hated us on account of the Sabbath, for they could not refute it) will
betray the saints and report them to the Catholics as those who disregard the institutions of
the people; that is, that they keep the Sabbath and disregard Sunday.
Then the Catholics bid the Protestants to go forward, and issue a decree that all who will not
observe the first day of the week, instead of the seventh day, shall be slain. And the Catholics,
whose numbers are large, will stand by the Protestants. The Catholics will give their power to
the image of the beast. And the Protestants will work as their mother worked before them to
destroy the saints.” Ellen G. White, Spaulding Magan Collection, pp. 1, 2.
In this remarkable statement, Ellen White clearly affirms that Protestants will make
overtures and seek to gain the influence of the Catholics and then the Catholics will tell
Protestants to go ahead and proclaim a Sunday law. The present efforts of the religious
right to enlist Catholics in the fight against abortion, gay marriage, pornography, poverty
and other social evils will come back to haunt them. And the liberal fringe will fall into the




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 287 of 385
trap as well by seeing in Sunday observance a way to save the environment, the family and
to help the poor.
In a related statement, Ellen White gives her understanding (actually, God’s understanding)
of Revelation 17:1-4:
“In the seventeenth of Revelation is foretold the destruction of all the churches [these are the
apostate Protestant churches] who corrupt themselves by idolatrous devotion to the service
of the papacy, those who have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. [Rev. 17:1-4
quoted.]

Thus is represented the papal power [the harlot], which with all deceivableness of
unrighteousness, by outside attraction and gorgeous display, deceives all nations; promising
them, as did Satan our first parents, all good to those who receive its mark, and all harm to
those who oppose its fallacies. The power which has the deepest inward corruption will make
the greatest display, and will clothe itself with the most elaborate signs of power. The Bible
plainly declares that this covers a corrupt and deceiving wickedness. "Upon her forehead was
a name written, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots and Abominations of the
Earth."
What is it that gives its kingdom to this power? [Notice that the United States under the
dominion of apostate Protestantism and Roman Catholicism are two separate powers
and the United States will give its kingdom to the papacy] Protestantism, a power which
while professing to have the temper and spirit of a lamb and to be allied to Heaven, speaks
with the voice of a dragon. It is moved by a power from beneath.” (Letter 232, 1899) Ellen G.
White, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 983

Names of Blasphemy
The harlot has names of blasphemy on her forehead (17:5). Blasphemy is defined as when
a mere man claims to exercise the powers and prerogatives of God on earth (John 10:30-
33) such as claiming to have the power to forgive sins (Mark 2:7)

The Harlot’s Attire
Purple and scarlet are the colors of royalty (John 19:5; Matthew 27:28) and the harlot sits
or reigns as queen over multitudes, nations, tongues and people.
The harlot is attired with gold, silver, precious stones and pearls. This indicates that this is
a very rich and ostentatious power. Notably, in the Old Testament, Israel clothed herself
with all this paraphernalia to entice the kings of the surrounding nations to fornicate with
her.
“The purple and scarlet color, the gold and precious stones and pearls, vividly picture the
magnificence and more than kingly pomp affected by the haughty see of Rome.” GC, p. 382.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 288 of 385
It is significant that the Roman Catholic clergy’s colors are purple and scarlet. It is also
worthy of note that the garments that are used by the papal clergy do not include blue! In
Scripture, blue is a symbol of God’s holy Law (Numbers 15:37-41)

The Golden Cup with Wine
The golden cup in the harlot’s hand contains the wine of Babylon. The wine is identified as
her abominations and the filthiness of her fornication (Revelation 17:4).
This wine is given to all nations, that is to say, to all the inhabitants of the earth (17:2;
18:3). It is not the choice of the nations to drink this wine. Drinking the wine is not
optional because we are told that Babylon has made all nations drink of the wine and that
all nations were made drunk with it (14:8; 17:2).
The wine is called ‘the wine of the wrath of her fornication’. That is, drinking the wine
causes wrath against those who are not willing to drink (14:8; 18:3).
The cup is full of wine but the wine is composed of the harlot’s abominations. Thus the
words ‘wine’ and ‘abominations’ are interchangeable. The harlot’s abominations include
several things:
      Idol worship (Deuteronomy 7:25, 26)
      Spiritualism or attempting to speak to and with the dead (Deuteronomy 18:9-13)
      Refusing to hear God’s law (Proverbs 28:9)
      Spiritual adultery (Ezekiel 23:35-45)
      Eating unclean meats (Deuteronomy 14:3)
      Shedding innocent blood (Ezekiel 22:2)
      Sun worship (Ezekiel 8:16)
Ellen White clearly identified the meaning of the wine:
“The fallen denominational churches are Babylon. Babylon has been fostering poisonous
doctrines, the wine of error. This wine of error is made up of false doctrines, such as the
natural immortality of the soul, the eternal torment of the wicked, the denial of the pre-
existence of Christ prior to His birth in Bethlehem, and advocating and exalting the first day of
the week above God's holy and sanctified day. These and kindred errors are presented to the
world by the various churches, and thus the Scriptures are fulfilled that say, 'For all nations
have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.' It is a wrath which is created by false
doctrines, and when kings and presidents drink this wine of the wrath of her fornication, they
are stirred with anger against those who will not come into harmony with the false and
satanic heresies which exalt the false Sabbath, and lead men to trample underfoot God's
memorial. Testimonies to Ministers, pp. 61, 62
Later in this study we will see that these multitudes and rulers who have swallowed the
poisonous doctrines of these apostate ministers will awaken from their drunkenness and
destroy them.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 289 of 385
In the above statement Ellen White blames, the churches for giving the rulers of the world
the wine of Babylon. But in a statement in The Great Controversy, p. 389 she is more
specific: It is the ministers, the men of learning of the apostate churches, who are guilty of
the spiritual intoxication of the world:
“When faithful teachers expound the word of God, there arise men of learning, ministers
professing to understand the Scriptures, who denounce sound doctrine as heresy, and thus
turn away inquirers after truth. Were it not that the world is hopelessly intoxicated with the
wine of Babylon, multitudes would be convicted and converted by the plain, cutting truths of
the word of God. But religious faith appears so confused and discordant that the people know
not what to believe as truth. The sin of the world's impenitence lies at the door of the church.”
After quoting Revelation 17:1-4 Ellen White clearly identifies this harlot as the Roman
Catholic papacy:

“In the seventeenth of Revelation is foretold the destruction of all the churches who corrupt
themselves by idolatrous devotion to the service of the papacy, those who have drunk of the
wine of the wrath of her fornication. [Rev. 17:1-4 quoted.]

Thus is represented the papal power, which with all deceivableness of unrighteousness, by
outside attraction and gorgeous display, deceives all nations; promising them, as did Satan
our first parents, all good to those who receive its mark, and all harm to those who oppose its
fallacies.” Ellen G. White, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 983.

God’s Faithful People
In all three chapters (12, 13, 17) where the seven-headed beasts are found, they are at
war with the people of God.
      God’s people in Revelation 12:13, 15 are referred to as a woman whom the dragon
       attempts to drown with the waters it spews out of its mouth.
      In Revelation 12:17 God’s people are called the “remnant of her Seed.” The dragon
       goes out to make war with them.
      In Revelation 13:7 God’s people are called the saints. The beast persecutes them.
      In Revelation 17:6 God’s people are called the saints and the martyrs of Jesus. The
       harlot, by using the waters upon which she sits, attempts to drown God’s people.
Note that Ellen White applies Revelation 17:6 to the career of the Roman Catholic papacy:
“The power that for so many centuries maintained despotic sway over the monarchs of
Christendom is Rome. . . And no other power could be so truly declared "drunken with the
blood of the saints" as that church which has so cruelly persecuted the followers of Christ.
Babylon is also charged with the sin of unlawful connection with "the kings of the earth." GC,
p. 382.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 290 of 385
The Seven Headed Scarlet Dragon
John N. Andrews, perhaps the ablest scholar in the history of the Seventh-day Adventist
Church, had this to say about the seven headed scarlet dragon of Revelation 17:
“The seven heads are seven forms of civil power which successively bear rule. These
seven heads belong alike to the dragon of Revelation 12, the beast of chapter 13, and that
of Revelation 17. This shows conclusively that the dragon and these two beasts are
symbols of the same power under different heads; for there are not three sets of seven
heads, but it is evident that the heads are successive forms of its power, one of them
bearing rule at a time, and then giving place to another (Revelation 17:9, 10). The proper
period of each seems to be this: The dragon before the 1260 years, the beast of chapter 13
during that period, and the beast of chapter 17 since the deadly wound and captivity at the
close of that period.” (J. N. Andrews, The Three Messages of Revelation XIV, 6-12, pp. 77, 78.
It will be noticed that the seven heads of the dragon beast are also described as seven
mountains. In Bible prophecy mountains represent kingdoms, not individual kings
(Daniel 2:34, 35, 44; Jeremiah 51:25; Micah 4:1; Revelation 17:9 in the light of Daniel 2:38,
39; 7:17, 23). This means that the seven heads must represent seven kingdoms that have
ruled upon the earth and have been controlled by the harlot or apostate religion.

The River Dragon
In order to comprehend the meaning of the seven headed dragon upon which the harlot
sits, we must first understand how the ancients perceived river dragons.
The ancients believed that mountains were heads of a great cosmic river serpent/dragon.
According to their world view, the mountains/heads would spew out waters
(headwaters) which would flow down into the valley. As river twisted and turned
tortuously in the valley it looked like the body of a great river serpent/dragon.
According to their view, when the river was at flood stage it overflowed its banks and
sprouted wings (Isaiah 8:7, 8).
It is of the utmost importance to keep in mind that Revelation 12:15-16 and 17:15, 9 is
drawing on this ancient concept. But in Revelation the river dragon takes on a symbolic
meaning. The mountains symbolize kingdoms and the waters represent multitudes,
nations, tongues and peoples. It is important to understand that the nations, multitudes,
tongues and peoples actually form the body of the dragon beast. This is the reason why
the harlot is described as sitting on a scarlet beast as well as on the waters. In other
words, the waters and the scarlet beast are interchangeable. And the waters/dragon are
scarlet because it is filled with the blood of God’s people (17:6).
The reliability of this ancient view as it applies to Revelation 17 is seen in the fact that the
seven heads are identified also as seven mountains. As we have already seen, in antiquity,
the mountains were conceived as the heads of a dragon beast.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 291 of 385
It is crucially important to realize that while the heads/mountains are spewing out waters,
the dragon beast is alive. When the heads/mountains, however, cease to spew out waters,
the dragon beast is dead. Thus the beast is alive or dead depending on whether the
harlot is able to use the head to persecute God’s people. That is to say, when the harlot
commands the kings to order their multitudes to persecute God’s people, the dragon beast
is alive. When the civil powers uphold democratic principles and keep aloof from the
church, the dragon beast is dead!

Three Seven-headed Beasts
The three seven-headed beasts [all representing successive stages of Rome] originate in
different places:
      When the seven headed dragon attempted to slay the man child, a sign was seen in
       heaven (Revelation 12:1).
      The seven headed beast of Revelation 13:1 arose from the sea.
      The seven headed scarlet beast of Revelation 17:8 will arise from the abyss.



                  Parallels between Revelation 12, 13 and 17

       Seven heads and ten horns (12:3; 13:1)     Seven heads and ten horns (17:3)

       Names of blasphemy (13:1)                  Names of blasphemy (17:3)

       Woman (12:1)                               Woman (17:1)

       Call for wisdom (13:18)                    Call for wisdom (17:9

       Nations, tongues, peoples (13:7)           Nations, tongues, peoples (17:15)

       Persecution (12:6, 13-15)                  Persecution (17:6)

       Waters (12:15)                             Waters (17:1)

       Waters dried up (12:16)                    Waters dried up (16:12)

       Was (1260 years—12:6; 13:5)                ‘Was’ (1260 years—17:8)

       Is not (deadly wound—12:16; 13:3)          ‘Is not’ (deadly wound—17:8)

       Wound healed (12:17; 13:3)                 ‘Shall be’ (wound healed—17:8)

       Beast & false prophet (13:1-18)            Harlot and daughters (17:5)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 292 of 385
From the Abyss
This dragon beast ascends from the abyss (Revelation 17:8). The abyss is the abode of the
dead:
Romans 10:7: “Or, who shall descend into the deep [abyss in Greek]? (that is, to bring up
Christ again from the dead.)”
In Revelation 20:1 Satan is cast into the abyss when his wicked followers are dead and
he is released once more when they are raised from the dead (Revelation 20:5, 7-9).

Seven Heads
The seven heads represent seven kings (17:10), but the word ‘kings’ in Bible prophecy is
interchangeable with ‘kingdoms’ (17:10; Dan. 7:17, 23; 2:37-39). The seven heads are
actually seven successive kingdoms.
Some have thought that Egypt and Assyria are the first two heads of the scarlet beast. In
this scenario the seven heads would be Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Medes and Persians,
Greece, Rome, Papal Rome and resurrected Papal Rome (the eighth kingdom). The problem
with this concept is that Egypt and Assyria are not found in any of the lines of prophecy in
Daniel or Revelation. Daniel 2, Daniel 7 and Revelation 13 all begin with Babylon as the
first kingdom and Daniel 8 and 11 begin with the kingdom of Persia.

Are the Seven Heads Seven Popes?
Others have thought that the seven heads represent the successive popes who have ruled
since 1929.
In this scenario, as of 2005, the five heads which had fallen since 1929 were:
      Pius XI (1922-1939)
      Pius XII (1939-1958)
      John XXIII (1958-1963)
      Paul VI (1963-1978)
      John Paul I (1978)
The head who is (or sixth head) would be John Paul II (1978-2005) and the one who is
to come and will rule a short time is Benedict XVI (the seventh head) who served as Pope
from 2005-2013.
But Benedict resigned his post as of February 28, 2013 so the present Pope, Francis I, is #
8 in the series of popes since 1929. So, as the speculation goes, Francis I will be the last
Pope because Revelation 17:11 refers to an eighth and Pope Francis I is the eighth Pope
since 1929! But this view can be discarded because Pope Francis I, is not one of the seven
previous ones as is required by the prophecy of Revelation 17:11.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 293 of 385
In summary, this is what the list of popes would look like:
   #1: Pius XI (1922-1939)
   #2: Pius XII (1939-1958)
   #3: John XXIII (1958-1963)
   #4: Paul VI (1963-1978)
   #5: John Paul I (1978)
   #6: John Paul II (1978-2005)
   #7: Benedict XVI (2005-2013)
   #8: Francis I (2013-?)
A novel interpretation was put forth before the election of Benedict XVI. It was suggested
that the eighth in the series would be a demon disguised as John Paul II because the
prophecy states that the eighth is of the seven. This view can be discarded for two
reasons: First, at this point a demon disguised as Pope John Paul II would be # 9 in the
series. Second, it did not happen!! Francis I is already the eighth Pope since 1929, not a
demon disguised as John Paul II.
Before the election of Francis I, evangelicals and even some Adventists had referred to a
prophecy by St. Malachy to the effect that the next Pope would be the last, that he would
be black (a euphemism for the head of the Jesuit Order who is called the ‘black Pope’) and
his name would be Petrus Romanus. None of these things are true of Francis I. All of this
speculation detracts from the power of this prophecy.
The fact is that this prophecy has nothing to do with individual popes. The seven heads
are not seven individuals but rather seven kingdoms. All this speculation about the seven
heads should be discarded for the following reasons:
First of all, it comes pretty close to setting specific dates for the final prophetic
movements. In this scenario, the successor of Pope Benedict XVI would be the last Pope. Is
this not setting a definite time frame for end time events?
Second, these speculative views sever Revelation 17 from the previous prophetic lines of
Daniel 7 and Revelation 12 and 13. As we have seen above, Revelation 12, 13 and 17 are
indissolubly linked! Ellen White understood the common thread between Revelation 12, 13
and 17:
“God has warned His people of the perils before them. John beholds the things which will be in
the last days and he sees a people working counter to God.” Then she says: “Read Revelation
12:17; 14:10-13, and chapters 17 and 13.” Manuscript Releases, volume 17, p. 18
Third, although the seven heads of this dragon beast are said to be seven kings, the words
‘kings’ and ‘kingdoms’ are used interchangeably in prophecy (see Daniel 2:39; 7:17, 23). In
prophecy ‘mountains’ represent kingdoms, not individual rulers. The popes on the list



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 294 of 385
above are actually not rulers of seven distinct kingdoms but rather leaders of the same
kingdom.
Finally, there is little or no evidence that 1929 should be chosen as the beginning date for
the sequence of the seven heads. As I have clearly shown in another place, the deadly
wound was not healed in 1929 because in Revelation 13:11-18 we are explicitly told that
the United States will be instrumental in the healing of the deadly wound, not Italy.

The Beast’s Three Final Stages
The beast (notice that it is not the harlot who has three stages but rather the beast) has
three consecutive stages of existence:
      It “was [past] and is [present] not and shall be [future]” (17:8).
      It “was and is not and yet is [better translation is: “shall be present”] (17:8).
      These same time periods are described as “five are fallen [past], one is [present]
       and the other is not yet come [future]” (17:10).
      The time periods are also explained as the beast who “was [past], and is not
       [present], even he is the eighth [future]” (17:11).
       Note: The beast “was” during the 1260 years of Papal dominion. It “is not” because
       the beast presently has a deadly wound. It “shall be” because the deadly wound will
       be healed and the whole world will wonder after the beast.
The heads of the dragon beast do not rule simultaneously but rather consecutively. The
heads are wounded one by one. We know this for at least two reasons:
      First, archeological digs in ancient Tell Amar.
       Note: A cylinder seal from Tell Amar in Mesopotamia (ancient Iraq) depicts a seven-
       headed dragon engaged in conflict with two deities, one before him and the other
       behind. Four of the heads, pierced by a spear, are shown drooping and are no
       longer in conflict. But the other three heads are still erect, maintaining the struggle.
      Second, the testimony of Revelation 12:15 and 13:3, 5, 6 where we are told that only
       one mouth is spewing out waters at any given time.
The Meaning of the Seven Heads
To the best of our present knowledge, the seven heads represent the following kingdoms:
      #1: Babylon
      #2: Medes and Persians
      #3: Greece
      #4: Roman Empire
      #5: Civil powers of Europe under the control of the Papacy
      #6: The civil power of the United States under apostate Protestantism
      #7: Resurrected Papal Rome allied with the kings of the whole world



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 295 of 385
It will be observed that in this scenario three of the last four heads of this scarlet beast
are Roman (and even the United States will become an ally of the dragon or Rome because
she will speak like a dragon; see the material on Matthew 24 for the connection between
the United States and its fascination with Rome). The question that begs to be asked is:
Why would three of the seven heads apply to Rome? Isn’t one head enough to represent the
various stages of Rome?
The answer to these questions is quite simple. The books of Daniel and Revelation
themselves take up the three stages of Rome separately. In Daniel 2 the legs of iron
[imperial Rome] are distinguished from the feet of iron and clay [divided Rome and papal
Rome]. In Daniel 7:23, 24 we find a clear distinction between the dragon ruling by itself,
and the dragon ruling with the ten horns and the dragon with the little horn.
Furthermore, Revelation 12 portrays a dragon in heaven as a symbol for Pagan Rome,
Revelation 13 uses a composite beast from the sea to represent Papal Rome during the
1260 years and Revelation 17 employs yet a third beast from the abyss to represent the
papacy when its deadly wound is healed. If three beasts which arise in three different
places are used to represent the different stages of Rome, then it should not surprise us
that separate heads are used to depict those same stages. It is important to underline that
the sixth head (the United States under apostate Protestantism) is symbolized by a
separate beast and is related to Rome because it speaks like a dragon and the dragon
represents Satan working through Rome.
Ellen White clearly identifies the last three persecuting powers in their proper historical
sequence:
“Under the symbols of the great red dragon, a leopard-like beast, and a beast with
lamblike horns, the earthly governments which would be especially engaged in trampling
upon God's law and persecuting His people were presented to John. Their war is to be
carried on till the close of time. The people of God, symbolized by a holy woman and her
children [Revelation 12:6, 17), are represented as greatly in the minority. In the last days,
only a remnant still exists. John speaks of them as those that ‘keep the commandments of God,
and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.’ Signs of the Times, February 8, 1910
Regarding the last head in the sequence of seven, Ellen White has stated:
“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist among the
Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and variance. Yet under one
head--the papal power--the people will unite to oppose God in the person of His witnesses.”
Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, p. 182
“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they might worship
him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land over which for long years the
shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land which God has favored by making it the
depository of the pure religion of Christ,--when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure
the principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 296 of 385
God's law,--it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants will
throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a national act
enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor to the corrupt faith of Rome,
reviving her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to work in
mighty power for the vindication of his truth.” Signs of the Times, June 12, 1893.
Some have wondered about the eighth head of the dragon beast. The simple fact is that
this beast does not have eight heads—it has only seven but the seventh head counts as an
eighth; that is to say that head number 7 bears the number 8.
Time and again Revelation 17 tells us that there are only seven heads on the dragon beast
(17:3, 7, 9, 10). Louis Were has shown in his book, The Woman and the Resurrected Beast,
eight is the number of the resurrection.

Dragon Wings
Though Revelation 17 does not use the symbolism of wings, it would be well to notice that
in Isaiah 8:7, 8 the invasion of King Sennacherib into the land of Judah is compared to the
flooding of the mighty river Euphrates. The river at flood stage is compared to a dragon
with wings:
“Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the River, strong and
mighty—the king of Assyria and all his glory; he will go up over all his channels and go over
all his banks. 8 He will pass through Judah, he will overflow and pass over, he will reach up
to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.”

The Ten Horns
The ten horns are found on the head of the dragon beast of Revelation 12, on the head of
the sea beast of Revelation 13 and on the head of the scarlet beast of Revelation 17.
Whereas the seven heads are consecutive, the ten horns are contemporaneous. This is
made clear by the fact that all ten horns will rule (when they receive the kingdom)
simultaneously on the seventh head when the beast resurrects from its death wound
(Revelation 17:12)
The ten horns are symbolic of ten kings (17:12). The ten kings represent ‘the kings of the
earth and the whole world’ (16:14; see also 17:18). During the 1260 days/years, the ten
toes and the ten horns of Daniel 2 and 7 represented the nations of Western Europe but at
the end the ten toes and ten horns represent the kings of the earth and the whole world.
These kings will have one mind until the words of God are fulfilled (16:17; 17:17). The
kings represent the rulers of the Christian world who, under the leadership of apostate
Protestantism and Roman Catholicism, will influence the state to enact and enforce a
Sunday law. When this happens, they will all be on the same page.
Are we to understand that there will be just ten nations in this universal union? No. The
number 10 is symbolic of ‘all’. This can be seen in several Biblical texts:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 297 of 385
      Genesis 24:10: Ten camels are symbolic of all of Abraham’s goods
      Luke 19:13: Ten servants are symbolic of all of Christ’s professed followers
      I Samuel 1:8: Ten sons
      Ecclesiastes 7:19: More than ten rulers of the city
      Daniel 1:14, 15: The young men were tested for ten days
      Daniel 1:20: The young men were ten times better
      Matthew 25:1: Ten virgins represent all of God’s professed people
      When we return 10% of our income we are confessing that all belongs to God
      The Ten Commandments express the whole duty of man. The whole law and
       prophets are summarized in the ten. God added no more to them (Deuteronomy
       5:22; Ecclesiastes 12:13; Matthew 22:40)
They give their power, authority and kingdom to the beast (17:12, 13).
“The so-called Christian world is to be the theater of great and decisive actions. Men in
authority will enact laws controlling the conscience, after the example of the papacy.
Babylon will make all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Every nation
will be involved. Of this time John the Revelator declares: [Rev. 18:3-7; 17:13, 14, quoted].
"These have one mind." There will be a universal bond of union, one great harmony, a
confederacy of Satan's forces. "And shall give their power and strength unto the beast." Thus
is manifested the same arbitrary, oppressive power against religious liberty--freedom to
worship God according to the dictates of conscience--as was manifested by the papacy, when
in the past it persecuted those who dared to refuse to conform with the religious rites and
ceremonies of Romanism.” 3SM, p. 392
They will be kings with the beast for one hour (17:12).
They will make war with the lamb (19:19; 16:14) in the person of His witnesses:
“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist among the
Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and variance. Yet under one
head--the papal power--the people will unite to oppose God in the person of His witnesses.
This union is cemented by the great apostate.” 7T, p. 183
In Matthew 25 Jesus said to His faithful followers: “In that you have done it unto one of
these the least my brothers you have done it unto me.” And when Jesus spoke to Saul of
Tarsus He said: “Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?”
Jesus will overcome the kings of the earth and the whole world because He is the King of
kings and Lord of lords (17:14; 19:19-20).
Those who are allied with Jesus are called, chosen and faithful (17:14).
The ten kings will not always have a love affair with the harlot who controls them. The
kings will hate the harlot and turn against her (17:15-16). Not only will the kings turn
against the religious leaders but the multitudes which composed these kingdoms will turn



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 298 of 385
against the harlot. The kings will hate her and the waters will dry up on her. A scene
similar to the French Revolution will be witnessed but on a global scale.
Ellen White describes the time when the waters of the great River Euphrates will dry up
(16:12).
“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about to rush upon
their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness of the night, falls upon the
earth. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the throne of God, spans the heavens and
seems to encircle each praying company. The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their
mocking cries die away. The objects of their murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful
forebodings they gaze upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its
overpowering brightness.” GC, pp. 635, 636
“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having led them to
destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation upon the ministers.
Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they have led their hearers to make void
the law of God and to persecute those who would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these
teachers confess before the world their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury.
"We are lost!" they cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false
shepherds. The very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful
curses upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be raised for their
destruction. The swords which were to slay God's people are now employed to destroy their
enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed. GC, p. 656.
      We are told in Revelation 17:11 that the beast will go to perdition.
      In II Thessalonians 2:3 we are told that the man of sin will go to perdition.
      In John 17:12 Judas Iscariot is called the son of perdition.
The Final Drying Up of the Waters
The seven headed dragon of Revelation 17 is reminiscent of Leviathan. There are three key
passages in the Old Testament which depict this seven-headed monster: Psalm 74:10-14;
Job 41 and Isaiah 27:1. We discover several interesting details about leviathan in these
passages:
      Leviathan is a sea creature with multiple heads. He rules over the waters.
      Leviathan is also called the fleeting serpent and the great dragon. In fact, the
       Hebrew word “Leviathan” means “twisted, coiled.”
      Leviathan is at enmity with God and His people.
      Leviathan is the king of the children of pride.
      Ultimately God will pull out Leviathan from its natural habitat, cast it onto dry land
       and crush its heads.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 299 of 385
Though the book of Revelation does not use the name “Leviathan” it is clear that the dragon
beast of Revelation 12 and the scarlet beast of Revelation 17 is Leviathan. All of the details
about Leviathan in the Old Testament coalesce in the portrait of Revelation.
After the millennium the waters will revive once again—because the wicked from all the
ages will resurrect from the dead (Revelation 20:5, 7-9). Satan will reign for a season over
the multitudes. Satan will entice them to surround the New Jerusalem and they will be like
the river Euphrates at flood stage (this is the imagery behind Psalm 46). As they are about
attempt to drown the city, the final drying up of the waters will take place. Notice how Ellen
White describes this final drying up of the waters after the millennium:
“He [Satan] rushes into the midst of his subjects and endeavors to inspire them with his own
fury and arouse them to instant battle. But of all the countless millions whom he has allured
into rebellion, there are none now to acknowledge his supremacy. His power is at an end. The
wicked are filled with the same hatred of God that inspires Satan; but they see that their case
is hopeless, that they cannot prevail against Jehovah. Their rage is kindled against Satan and
those who have been his agents in deception, and with the fury of demons they turn upon
them.” GC, p. 671.
This portrayal by Ellen White is corroborated by the picture in Ezekiel 28:2-10 where the
nations will unsheathe their swords against the covering cherub, Lucifer.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 300 of 385
          “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                 by Pastor Stephen Bohr


             LESSON #16 – THE LAST LINK IN
                 THE PROPHETIC CHAIN

Introduction

In the course of Christian history, many candidates have proposed as the fulfillment of the
little horn and beast prophecies of Daniel and Revelation: The Kaiser, Benito Mussolini,
Adolph Hitler, Ayatollah Khomeini, Yasser Arafat, Henry Kissinger, Saddam Hussein, and
most recently some have even suggested the name of President Barack Obama.

Obviously all of these were just guesses. But we do not need to guess. The Bible tells us
exactly when the antichrist system would arise, where it would arise and what it would be
like!

In this presentation we shall use a disciplined, careful, contextual approach. There will
be no guesswork. I will use the historical flow method that gives us the starting point,
the ending point and everything in between.

I will be speaking about a system, not the individuals who are in the system. I implore
you to carefully weigh the evidence and then decide if what you have seen is true!

It is important to realize that in prophecy we are dealing with symbols that cannot be
taken literally. Each symbol represents something greater than the mere symbol. Today
we are going to study the prophecies of Daniel 7 and Revelation 13.

Winds and Sea

Daniel 7:1, 2: Explanation of winds and sea

“In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and visions of his head
while on his bed. Then he wrote down the dream, telling the main facts. 2 Daniel spoke,


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 301 of 385
saying, "I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the
Great Sea.”

Note: Winds represent wars among nations that that are struggling to ascend to power.

Isaiah 17:12: Waters represent multitudes of nations and peoples.

“Woe to the multitude of many people who make a noise like the roar of the seas, and to the
rushing of nations that make a rushing like the rushing of mighty waters!”

Four Great Beasts

Daniel 7:3: Four Beasts

“And four great beasts came up from the sea, each different from the other.”

Daniel 7:17:

“'Those great beasts, which are four, are four kings which arise out of the earth.”

NOTE: These beasts represent kings that reign over a succession of four kingdoms. In the
book of Daniel, the words ‘kings’ and ‘kingdoms’ are used interchangeably. This can be seen
clearly in Daniel 2 where Nebuchadnezzar is told that he was the head of gold and after him
another kingdom would arise. It is also seen in Daniel 7:23 where the fourth beast is called
a ‘fourth kingdom’ that shall arise in the earth. Even today, each Nation has a mascot.

      The United States: Eagle
      Russia: Bear
      England: Lion
      China: Dragon

The Lion

Daniel 7:4: The LION

“The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings. I watched till its wings were plucked off;
and it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand on two feet like a man, and a man's
heart was given to it.”

NOTE: The prophetic chain begins with Babylon, the kingdom in which Daniel lived. When
King Nebuchadnezzar built the ancient city of Babylon he placed lion sphinxes at all of the
main entrances to the city. In fact, Jeremiah 51:38; 50:44 refers to Babylon as a lion.
When Babylon ceased to be a conquering power, its wings were plucked and the lion’s
heart removed.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 302 of 385
The Bear

Daniel 7:5: The BEAR

"And suddenly another beast, a second, like a bear. It was raised up on one side, and had
three ribs in its mouth between its teeth. And they said thus to it: 'Arise, devour much flesh!'”

NOTE: The bear was higher on one side than the other because one of the two kingdoms
was more prominent than the other.

In Daniel 8 we are told that a ram had two horns, one horn taller than the other and the
tallest one came out last. The two horns are identified as the kingdoms of the Medes and
Persians (Daniel 8:20). History proves that the first two kings of the Medo-Persian
dynasty were Medes but all the rest were Persians. The three ribs represent the three
provinces that the Medes and Persians had to uproot to rise to power: Lydia, Egypt and
Babylon. It bears noting that the book of Daniel itself identifies the second kingdom as
Medo-Persia (Daniel 5).

The Leopard

Daniel 7:6: The LEOPARD

"After this I looked, and there was another, like a leopard, which had on its back four wings
of a bird. The beast also had four heads, and dominion was given to it.

NOTE: The third empire is Greece. The wings represent speed of conquest. A leopard is
swift but a leopard with four wings is even swifter! Alexander the Great conquered the
world in only 9 years and died in a drunken stupor when he was only 31 years old. When
Alexander the Great died he left no successor so his kingdom was divided into four
kingdoms: The Antigonids, the Ptolomies, Seleucids, and Attalids.

The parallel prophecy of Daniel 8 describes a he-goat that was flying through the air (as
the leopard had wings) and defeated the ram. The he-goat had a notable horn that is
identified as the first king (Alexander the Great). When the notable horn is broken, four
horns come up in its place. The book of Daniel itself identifies the he-goat as the kingdom
of Greece (Daniel 8:20).

The Dragon Beast

Daniel 7:7: The DRAGON beast

“After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, dreadful and terrible,
exceedingly strong. It had huge iron teeth; it was devouring, breaking in pieces, and
trampling the residue with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were before it, and
it had ten horns.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 303 of 385
Note: The ten horns are not on the head of the dragon beast when it rises to power. We
will see in a moment that the horns rise after the dragon beast has ruled for a period of
time.

Ten Horns and Little Horn

Daniel 7:8: The little horn rises after the ten horns and among them.

“I was considering the horns, and there was another horn, a little one, coming up among
them, before whom three of the first horns were plucked out by the roots. And there, in this
horn, were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking pompous words.”

Three Stages

Three stages:

       [1] The Dragon

       [2] The Ten Horns

       [3] The Little Horn

Daniel 7:23, 24: Three stages of the fourth beast so ALL ARE ROMAN

"Thus he said: The fourth beast shall be a [1] fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be
different from all other kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, trample it and break it in
pieces. 24 The ten horns are ten kings who [2] shall arise from this kingdom and [3]
another shall rise after them; he shall be different from the first ones, and shall subdue
three kings.

Characteristics of the Little Horn

I want to share seven characteristics that will help us identify the little horn:

      Rises after the ten horns come up so it must rise after the Roman Empire was
       divided in the year 476 AD.

      Being that it rises among the ten horns, it must have risen in western Europe. More
       specifically, it rises from the head of the fourth beast so it must be Roman.

      It uproots three of the ten kingdoms into which Europe was divided.

Daniel 7:25 gives us four additional characteristics:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 304 of 385
Daniel 7:25:

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the
Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his
hand for a time and times and half a time.

      It speaks blasphemies against the Most High

      It persecutes the saints of the Most High

      It had to audacity to attempt to change God’s holy Law

      It ruled for time, times and the dividing of time

There is only one power in the world that meets every single one of these specifications:
The Roman Catholic Papacy.

Please bear with me on this. Don’t shut off the DVD player at this point no matter how
painful this might be. My intention is not to offend you. I am speaking about a system,
not the individuals who find themselves in the system. There are millions of loving
Christians in the system that are unaware of what I am going to present.

#1 The papacy did rise to power in 538 AD after the Roman Empire had been divided into
ten kingdoms

#2 The papacy did rise in western Europe and more specifically from the head of the
fourth beast—Rome.

      Its official name is the Roman Catholic Church

      Its geographical location is in the ancient city of Rome

      Its official language is Latin and it uses Roman numerals

      It inherited its organizational system of the Roman Empire

      Its architecture is Roman

      It inherited many of its religious beliefs and practices from the pagan Roman
       empire including the observance of the day of the Sun.

      The name of its leader, ‘supreme pontiff’ was borrowed directly from the pagan
       Roman emperor.

      Scores of historians confirm that the Roman empire was divided into ten
       kingdoms and that the papacy continued the legacy of the Roman Empire.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 305 of 385
#3 The papacy was instrumental in uprooting three heretical kingdoms: The Heruli
(493), the Vandals (534), and the Ostrogoths (538)

#4 It did speak blasphemies against the Most High. WHAT IS BLASPHEMY? We must
allow the Bible to explain what it means. It is not some infidel atheist who raises his
hand to heaven and openly defies God. The Bible defines blasphemy in two ways:

Mark 2:7: One who claims to have the power to forgive sins.

"Why does this Man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone?"

In every Roman Catholic church there is a confessional where sinners come to confess
their sins to the priest and to receive absolution. It is well known that Pope Francis I has
declared that in the year of mercy, women who have aborted children can be forgiven by
the priest as long as their repentance is sincere.

John 10:30-33: One who claims to be the representative of God

“I and My Father are one." 31 Then the Jews took up stones again to stone Him. Jesus
answered them, "Many good works I have shown you from My Father. For which of those
works do you stone Me?" 33 The Jews answered Him, saying, "For a good work we do not
stone You, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a Man, make Yourself God."

# 5 The papacy did persecute the saints of the Most High.

What about the persecution of the faithful? During his pontificate, Pope John Paul II wrote
a letter where he apologized to all of those who had been killed by misguided individuals in
the church. Pope Francis I recently traveled to Torre Pelici and apologized to the
Waldensians for the persecutions that the papacy launched against them. The story of the
Inquisition is well known. Juan Antonio Llorente who himself was a member of the
inquisition, minutely documented the atrocities that were committed by the papacy in the
Spanish inquisition.

Inquisition in Lima, Peru

A few years ago I had the privilege of visiting the city of Lima, Peru. There was one place I
had always wanted to visit in Lima—the palace of the Inquisition. You see, Latin America
had three places where the Inquisition functioned: Colombia, Peru and Mexico.

At the very entrance of the Palace there was a large mural that portrayed an auto de Fe in
the Plaza de Armas. After our tour guide explained the various elements of the mural, we
stepped into the torture chamber. I was amazed at how our young tour guide described
the methods that were used to torture and slay heretics who disagreed with the
teachings and practices of the Roman Catholic Church.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 306 of 385
As we entered the torture chamber on the right there was the Strappado:

      The victim’s wrists were bound behind their back with a rope and then the loose
       end of the rope was tossed over a beam.

      The victim would then be slowly raised with the rope with his arms behind his
       back. When the victim was high above the ground the rope was abruptly released
       and then stopped before the victim got to the ground thus dislocating his arms and
       shoulders.

      Sometimes weights of up to 25 pounds were bound to the victim’s feet to make the
       drop more precipitous and the dislocation more painful.

Next there was the whipping post:

      With hands and feet in the stocks the prisoner was beaten a minimum of 50 times
       and a maximum of 200 times on the back with a whip.

A left-turn and on the left hand side there was the Rack:

      The victim was laid upon a table face up with arms and legs extended. The
       victim’s ankles and wrists were then tied with ropes that were attached to pulleys
       at the four ends of the table.

      Wheels at either end of the board were turned pulling the legs downward and
       the arms upward. As the ropes got tighter and tighter the body was stretched in
       opposite directions.

      As the victim was commanded to recant, the shoulders, elbows, thighs and ankles
       were slowly dislocated as the prisoner writhed in pain.

On the right hand side was the Garrote

      It was an instrument that slowly strangled the victim.

      The hands and feet were tied with rope to the arms and legs of the chair and a
       noose was put around the neck.

      In back of the chair was a wheel that worked as a tourniquet.

      The wheel was slowly turned and this pulled the rope tighter and tighter around
       the hands, feet and neck until the victim was strangled.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 307 of 385
Water boarding was next:

      Another left and we are at a bench where the victim was laid down, his nostrils
       were pinched shut and water was poured down a funnel into the victim’s throat.

      Sometimes a cloth was forced down the throat while pouring the water causing
       the sensation of suffocation by drowning.

Then we went down deep into underground tunnels where dungeons had been hewn
into the rock.

The cubicles were barely larger than the person who was placed in them.

For days they were shut in by the cold and in absolute darkness with barely enough room
to wiggle without their families even knowing where they were.

As mentioned before, some more fortunate victims were taken to the Plaza de Armas,
wood was placed around their bodies, they were chained to a stake and then they were
burned alive.

#6 The papacy does claim to have changed God Law.

“. . . the pope can modify divine law, since his power if not of man, but of God, and he acts in
the place of God upon earth, with the fullest power of binding and losing his sheep.” (Lucius
Ferraris, Prompta Bibliotheca, 8 volumes, vol. 2, article ‘Papa’).

Catechisms eliminate the Second Commandment and divide the tenth in two parts.

Catechisms present Sunday as the day that we are supposed to go to church in honor of
the resurrection of Jesus.

I have pages and pages of quotations from Roman Catholic bishops, cardinals and popes
that Christ gave the Roman Catholic Church the right to change the day of worship from
Sabbath to Sunday. Available at SecretsUnsealed.org.

#7 Remember that we are dealing with symbols. The three and half times are three
and a half years. The word ‘times’ in Daniel 4 is years.

Revelation 13: Four Beasts

The beast represents the same power as the little horn for three reasons.

[1] It is in the same location in the sequence as the little horn in Daniel 7.

[2] It performs the same activities as the little horn.

[3] It rules for the same period of time.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 308 of 385
Revelation 13:1, 2: The same sequence of powers. The beasts are in reverse order

“Then I stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising up out of the sea, having seven
heads and ten horns, and on his horns ten crowns, and on his heads a blasphemous name. 2
Now the beast that I saw was like a [1] leopard, his feet were like the feet of a [2] bear, and
his mouth like the mouth of a [3] lion. The [4] dragon gave him his power, his throne, and
great authority.”

Revelation 13:7: Same actions: War with the saints.

“It was granted to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. And authority
was given him over every tribe, tongue, and nation.”

Revelation 13:5: The same actions and period of time.

“And he was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and he was given
authority to continue for forty-two months.”

End of the Third Stage: Captivity and Sword

Revelation 13:10: The third stage ends when the beast is wounded by the sword and
taken into captivity.

“He who leads into captivity shall go into captivity; he who kills with the sword must be
killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.”

What is meant by the captivity of the beast?

It is usually explained as Pope Pius VI being taken captive to France in 1798 where he
died in exile. But the meaning is much broader. Remember that the beast does not
represent any Pope in particular but rather the system that ruled for 1260 years, from
538-1798 AD. The entire system was taken captive and thrown into prison in 1798. We
will shortly have more to say about this.

What is represented by the sword that gave the deadly wound to the beast and what is the
meaning of the deadly wound? Let’s speak first of all about the sword. The Bible describes
two swords. The first is the word of God.

Ephesians 6:17: God has given the church a sword, the word of God. This is not the
sword that gave the beast its deadly wound.

“And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.”

Note: This cannot be the sword that wounded the beast because the papacy did not use the
Bible to slay the saints. The very sword that the papacy used to persecute the saints was
used to give it the deadly wound. We must remember that symbols do not always mean the
same thing—the context must be taken into account.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 309 of 385
Romans 13:1-4: The sword represents the authority of the civil power to punish violations
of civil law:

“Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except
from God and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. 2 Therefore whoever resists the
authority resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves
for rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the
authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same for he is God's minister to
you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is
God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil.”

Note: The deadly wound does not mean that the Roman Catholic church closed its doors
in 1798 and ceased to function as a church. The fact is that after Pope Pius VI was
deposed the Roman Catholic church, as a church, continued to function. The faithful
continued baptizing their infants, attending mass and confessing their sins to the priest.
What was taken from the papacy was the power to use the civil sword to persecute as it
had done in the past.

While the papacy is permitted to use the sword of the civil power to impose its doctrines
and practices it is free and alive. But when it loses the ability to use the civil sword, it is
wounded and bound.

The best parallel to this is found in the book of Revelation itself. Before the second coming
of Jesus, Satan is alive and free, using the civil powers of the world to persecute the
faithful. But when Jesus comes, all the kings of the earth are no longer alive to support
Satan so Satan is wounded and bound. After the millennium the kings resurrect and
Satan is released from his prison and is alive and free to attempt to take the holy city.

Cardinal Henry Edward Manning described very well what happened when the barbarians
tore apart the Roman Empire:

“Now the abandonment of Rome was the liberation of the pontiffs. Whatsoever claims to
obedience the emperors may have made, and whatsoever compliance the Pontiff may have
yielded, the whole previous relation, anomalous, and annulled again and again by the vices
and outrages of the emperors, was finally dissolved by a higher power. The providence of God
permitted a succession of irruptions, Gothic, Lombard, and Hungarian, to desolate Italy, and
to efface from it every remnant of the empire. The pontiffs found themselves alone, the
sole fountains of order, peace, law, and safety. And from the hour of this providential
liberation, when, by a divine intervention, the chains fell off from the hands of the successor
of St. Peter, as once before from his own, no sovereign has ever reigned in Rome except the
Vicar of Jesus Christ.” Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ, Preface, pp. xxviii, xxix. London: Burns and Lambert, 1862




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 310 of 385
“It [the papacy] waited until such a time as God should break its bonds asunder, and should
liberate it from subjection to civil powers, and enthrone it in the possession of a temporal
sovereignty of its own.” Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ (London: Burns & Lambert, second edition, 1862), pp. 11-13

The Fourth Stage: The Wound is Healed

Revelation 13:3: After ruling for 1260 years the papacy received a deadly wound and
was led into captivity when the French government took away the sword of civil power.
But prophecy affirms that the wound will heal and the papacy will be freed from her
captivity to exercise global power. The entire world will wonder after the beast.

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed. And all the world marveled and followed the beast.”

The Beast from the Earth Heals the Wound

Revelation 13:11: Introductory verse. Rises when the first beast is wounded and rises
further west in a different place.

“Then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and
spoke like a dragon.”

      It arises when the first beast receives its deadly wound.
      It arises in a different place the first four beasts.
      It has to be a political superpower because it will lead the whole world to worship
       the first beast.
      It has to be an economic superpower because it will be able to forbid buying and
       selling.
      It will be a global military power because it will enforce a global death decree
       against those who do not worship the first beast.
      It is a contemporary of the first beast but is younger. It does not fight the previous
       beast to gain power but rather will end up helping the first beast recover its power.

Revelation 13:12: All the authority of the first beast on its behalf and makes all worship
the first beast.

“And he [1] exercises all the authority of the first beast [2] in his presence, and causes the
earth and those who dwell in it to [3] worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was
healed.”

Revelation 13:14: Makes an image of and to the first beast. It will be a reflection of the
first beast, a union of church and state.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 311 of 385
“And he deceives those who dwell on the earth by those signs which he was granted to do in
the sight of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth [4] to make an image to the
beast who was wounded by the sword and lived.”

Revelation 13:16: It will enforce the mark of the beast.

 “He causes all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, [5] to receive a mark on
their right hand or on their foreheads.”

The Two Horns like a Lamb

The closest parallel to the beast that has two horns like a lamb is found in Daniel 8:3

Daniel 8:3: A ram with two horns.

“Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and there, standing beside the river, was a ram which had two
horns, and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher one
came up last.”

Daniel 8:20: The two kingdoms in one nation are the Medes and Persians.

“The ram which you saw, having the two horns ó they are the kings of Media and Persia.”

Matthew 22:19-21: Which two kingdoms did Jesus, the Lamb, recognize?

“Show Me the tax money." So they brought Him a denarius. 20 And He said to them, "Whose
image and inscription is this?" 21 They said to Him, "Caesar's." And He said to them, "Render
therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."

Matthew 4:8-10: Jesus rejected the kingdoms of this world.

“Again, the devil took Him up on an exceedingly high mountain, and showed Him all the
kingdoms of the world [same expression as in John 18:36] and their glory. 9 And he said
to Him, "All these things I will give You if You will fall down and worship me." 10 Then Jesus
said to him, "Away with you, Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the LORD your God and
Him only you shall serve.'"
John 18:36: Jesus recognized two separate kingdoms in one nation. Pilate recognized
the same when he told the Jews to judge Jesus according to their law.

“Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My
servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is
not from here."

Jesus called His kingdom ‘the kingdom of heaven’ or the ‘kingdom of the church’. He never
appealed to the Roman state to aid Him in the preaching of His message.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 312 of 385
He rebuked James and John when they wished to destroy the Samaritan villages that
refused to allow Jesus to pass through them.

He refused to be made king after He fed the 5,000.

He severely rebuked Peter for using his sword to defend Jesus when the temple guard
came to arrest Him. Jesus did not come to take over the reins of the state, He came to
implant the principles of His kingdom in the human heart:

Luke 17:20-21: Jesus did not come to take over the reins of civil power

“Now when He was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, He
answered them and said, "The kingdom of God does not come with observation [with an
external display of power]; 21 nor will they say, 'See here!' or 'See there! For indeed, the
kingdom of God is within you."
So, clearly, Jesus the Lamb recognized the existence of two kingdoms, separate from one
another. So the two lamblike horns on the head of the land beast represent two kingdoms
in one nation. You might say: The United States is certainly one nation but does it have
two kingdoms?

Constitutional Fathers and the Bible

Even though the Founding Fathers were not churchgoers, they were well acquainted with
the Bible and with history.

   1.    They had great admiration for Christ and knew all about His trial, sentencing and
         execution by a union of the apostate Jewish Church with the Roman State.

   2.    They were also well aware of the persecution that befell the apostolic church at
         the hands of the Roman State by the instigation of the apostate Jewish Church.

   3.    They knew about how the papacy persecuted those who disagreed with its
         doctrines and practices.

   4.    They knew all about the Colonial period where people who were not member of
         the established religion were deprived of their civil and religious liberty.

The Founding Documents

The documents that founded the United States are remarkable indeed. Shortly before 1798,
in 1776 the Declaration of Independence affirmed that all men are created equal and that
they have certain inalienable rights among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.




        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 313 of 385
In 1787 the Constitution of the United States was ratified that established a government of
the people, by the people and for the people.

And in 1791 the Bill of Rights (the first Ten Amendments to the Constitution) was ratified
which guarantees religious and civil liberties.

All of these documents were ratified immediately before the papacy received its deadly
wound in 1798. Just as prophecy predicted, God, in His providence, was preparing the next
world super power to appear on the stage even as the previous power was about to be
mortally wounded.

An examination of the writings of the constitutional fathers reveals that they firmly
believed in the existence of two kingdoms in the United States that were to forever
remain separate. According to their view the church was to use the spiritual sword of the
Spirit to persuade through the preaching of the Word while the state was to use the
material sword to preserve the civil order.

The new nation was established upon two great principles:

      Republicanism (representative civil government with the civil sword)
      Protestantism (representative religious government with the religious sword)

During the Middle Ages all civil matters were decided and imposed by the king and all
religious matters were decided and enforced by the Pope. The power flowed from top to
bottom. When the king spoke in civil matters and the Pope spoke in religious matters, the
people were simply expected to obey without question.

The constitutional fathers established a revolutionary system of government that flowed
from the bottom up—a government of the people, by the people and for the people in
which citizens would enjoy full civil and religious liberty.

The foundational idea behind this concept was that of two kingdoms in one nation, each
with its own sword and separate from one another. This was one of the most revolutionary
experiments in the history of the world. Ellen White, who was born only 29 years after the
deadly wound wrote:

“The founders of the nation wisely sought to guard against the employment of secular
power on the part of the church, with its inevitable result--intolerance and persecution.” GC,
p. 442

In this way the founding fathers rejected the Roman Catholic view that it is legitimate for
the church to use the power of the state to enforce its beliefs and practices. Instead the
Founding Fathers established a government that returned to the view of church and
state that had characterized Jesus and the earliest church, one that separated church and
state and guaranteed the freedom to worship God according to the dictates of conscience.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 314 of 385
Let’s take a look at several statements from the writings of the Founders of the Nation:

George Washington

George Washington, who presided over the Constitutional Convention that ratified the
Constitution stated:

“If I could have entertained the slightest apprehension that the Constitution framed by the
convention where I had the honor to preside might possibly endanger the religious rights of
any ecclesiastical society, certainly I would never have placed my signature on it; and if I
could now conceive that the general government might ever be so administered as to render
the liberty of conscience insecure, I beg you will be persuaded that no one would be more
zealous than myself to establish effectual barriers against the horrors of spiritual
tyranny and every species of religious persecution. For, you doubtless remember, I have
often expressed my sentiments that any man, conducting himself as a good citizen and being
accountable to God alone for his religious opinions, ought to be protected in worshiping
the Deity according to the dictates of his own conscience.” George Washington to the Baptist
Delegation, August 8, 1789.

Benjamin Franklin

“When religion is good, I conceive that it will support itself; and when it does not support
itself, and God does not take care to support it, so that its professors are obliged to call for the
help of the civil powers, ‘tis a sign, I apprehend, of it being a bad one.” (Quoted in Clifford
Goldstein, Day of the Dragon, p. 77)

Thomas Jefferson

I have had the privilege of visiting the Jefferson Monument in Washington D. C. several
times. Etched on the Monument are the following words:

“Almighty God hath created the mind free. All attempts to influence it by temporal
punishment or burdens. . . are a departure from the plan of the Holy Author of our religion. .
. No man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship or ministry or shall
otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or belief, but all men shall be free to
profess and by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion. I know but one
code of morality for men whether acting singly or collectively.”

Jefferson once wrote:

“The legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as are injurious to others. It
does me no injury for my neighbor to say that there are twenty gods, or no gods. It neither
picks my pocket nor breaks my leg.” (Thomas Jefferson, Writings, p. 285)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 315 of 385
Jefferson wrote in 1782:

“It is error alone which needs the support of government. Truth can stand by itself.”
(Thomas Jefferson, Notes on Virginia, 1782; from George Seldes, ed., The Great Quotations,
Secaucus, New Jersey: Citadel Press, 1983, p. 363)

Notice how Jefferson warned against the clergy using the power of the state to enforce
religion:

“The clergy, by getting themselves established by law and ingrafted into the machine of
government, have been a very formidable engine against the civil and religious rights of
man.’ (Letter to J. Moor, 1800)

“History, I believe, furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil
government.” (Letter to von Humboldt, 1813)

“In every country and in every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty. He is always in
alliance with the despot, abetting his abuses in return for protection to his own.” (Letter to H.
Spafford, 1814)

Danbury Baptism Association

In a letter addressed to the Danbury Baptist Association in 1802, Thomas Jefferson
expressed his understanding of the first two clauses of the first amendment by using the
metaphor of the wall which he most likely borrowed from Roger Williams:

“Believing with you [the Danbury Baptists] that religion is a matter which lies solely
between Man and his God, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship,
that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate
with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their
legislature should "make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," thus building a wall of separation between Church and State.”

It will be noticed that the third clause of the first amendment guarantees full civil
rights—freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom to
petition the government for a redress of grievances.

James Madison Statements

James Madison, who is called the ‘Father of the Constitution,’ expressed his views on the
relationship between religion and the government:

“There is not a shadow of right in the general government to intermeddle with religion. Its
least interference with it [religion] would be a most flagrant usurpation. I can appeal to my
uniform conduct on this subject that I have warmly supported religious freedom.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 316 of 385
Madison affirmed in 1822 that the United States was teaching the world two most
important truths:

 “We are teaching the world the great truth that Governments do better without Kings and
Nobles than with them [republicanism]. The merit will be doubled by the other lesson that
Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the aid of Government
[Protestantism].” [James Madison, Letter to Edward Livingston, July 10, 1822 The Writings
of James Madison, Gaillard Hunt].

Sometimes when I am lecturing on this subject I ask the question: To how many
kingdoms do Christians belong? They actually belong to two.

The fact is that Christians are citizens of two kingdoms in the same country. We are
citizens of the United States by birth and we are citizens of the heavenly kingdom by the
new birth. We have an earthly passport that identifies our earthly country of origin and
we have a heavenly passport, the blood of the Lamb, which identifies us as citizens of
Christ’s heavenly kingdom, the church.

John Adams and the Treaty of Tripoli

On June 10, 1797, the year before the deadly wound was given to the Roman Catholic
papacy, president John Adams signed into law the Treaty of Tripoli that unambiguously
stated:

“The Government of the United States is not in any sense founded upon the Christian
religion.”

Some have been troubled by the wording in this treaty strongly arguing that the United
States was founded upon the Christian religion. However, if the constitutional fathers had
founded the United States upon the Christian religion, this would have been an
establishment of religion which is unconstitutional!! The United States is not a Christian
Nation; it is a nation of Christians.

Notably, President Adams sent this treaty to the Senate in May of 1797 where it was read
aloud to all of the senators who were present and printed copies were also given to each
Senator. The vote to ratify the treaty was unanimous! Notably, the treaty was printed in
full in several newspapers in Philadelphia and New York City and there was not even a
whimper of protest from the general public. None of the Senators paid a heavy price for
signing the treaty.

The First Amendment

Frequently Christian activists will also say that separation of church and state appears
nowhere in the Constitution. This is true if we mean that the actual expression:
“separation of church and state” is not in the Constitution. Although the specific expression



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 317 of 385
is not found in the Constitution, the concept is clearly and explicitly contained in the
First Amendment to the Constitution:

“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion [clause #1], or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof [clause #2]; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for
a redress of grievances [clause #3].”

Notice that the intent of the First Amendment is not to forbid the establishment of a
church or a religion over and above another church or another religion. The word
‘religion’ in the First Amendment is not preceded by a definite or an indefinite article.

Clearly, the First Amendment forbids Congress from drawing up laws that have anything to
do with religion, period. In this sense the Constitution clearly contains the concept of the
separation of church and state because the state is forbidden to make laws that
establish religion or prohibit its free exercise. Thus the state can have nothing to do
with religion except to protect everyone’s right to practice it freely according to the
dictates of their own conscience.

Notably, the third clause of the First Amendment guarantees full civil rights. Thus the First
Amendment contains the idea of full civil and religious liberty!!

The Supreme Court

It seems preposterous that the United States could ever write into law a Sunday law and
an anti-Sabbath law especially in light of the fact that the First Amendment strictly
forbids congress from making any law that establishes religion and forbids its free
exercise. How could this ever happen? The answer is found in our system of government.
Our government is composed of three branches:

      Legislative: Writes the laws
      Executive: Enforces the laws
      Judicial: Interprets the laws

The most powerful branch of government is the judicial branch, particularly the Supreme
Court. This tribunal has nine justices and it is their role to determine if a law is
constitutional. How will a beast with lamblike horns speak like a dragon?

      The composition of the Supreme Court: Six Roman Catholics.

      The 2000 election.

      The Supreme Court on June 26, 2015 legalized gay marriage on a federal level and
       there is no court of appeal.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 318 of 385
      The fact that there are 6 Roman Catholics on the Court.

      How unconstitutional laws will be declared constitutional and vice versa.

      Daniel 3 and 6 as an illustration.

Worship, Sign and Authority

The [1] first angel commands true [2] worship to the creator whose [3] sign is the
Sabbath:

Revelation 14:6, 7: Command to worship the Creator whose sign of allegiance is the
Sabbath

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to
preach to those who dwell on the earth ó to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people 7 saying
with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come;
and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water.” [a reference
to creation and the fourth commandment]

On the other hand, the [1] beast commands [2] false worship whose sign is the [3]
change in the Law. Thus at the heart of the final conflict is the issue of authority.

Revelation 14:9-11: Warning against worshiping the beast that we have identified as the
papacy and receiving his mark, a sign of allegiance to him.

“Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast
and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, 10 he himself shall also
drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of His
indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels
and in the presence of the Lamb. 11 And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever;
and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever
receives the mark of his name."

Claims to Divine Power

Roman Catholics might say that the papacy does not claim to be God or demand
worship and therefore the third angel’s message does not apply to it.

However, there are several clear indications that the papacy does claim the prerogatives
of God. If the papacy claims to exercise the prerogatives of God it is claiming to be God!

      2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4: The papacy sits in the temple of God claiming to be God




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 319 of 385
      Pope Leo XIII stated in an Encyclical Letter dated June 20, 1894: “We hold upon this
       earth the place of God Almighty.” (The Great Encyclical Letters of Leo XIII, p. 304)

      Its leader is called ‘holy father’ when Jesus forbade us from calling any man on
       earth our Father (Matthew 23:9)

      Popes have since time immemorial allowed individuals to bow before them even to
       the point of kissing their ring and feet! In contrast, Peter refused to allow
       Cornelius to bow before him (Acts 10:25, 26)

      The papacy claims to have the power to forgive sins

      The papacy claims that it had authority to change the day of worship from Sabbath
       to Sunday

      At Vatican Council I in 1870 the dogma of papal infallibility was proclaimed

      The papacy has claimed to have power to set up kings and remove them
      Popes have claimed that they can judge all but can be judged by no one

      The papacy claims to have the power to create the Creator in the sacrifice of the
       Mass:

       “Thus the priest may, in a certain manner, be called the creator of his Creator, since
       by saying the words of consecration, he creates, as it were, Jesus in the sacrament, by
       giving him a sacramental existence, and produces him as a victim to be offered to the
       eternal Father. As in creating the world it was sufficient for God to have said, Let it be
       made, and it was create—He spoke, and they were made—so it is sufficient for the
       priest to say, ‘Hoc est corpus meum,’ and behold the bread is no longer bread, but the
       body of Jesus Christ. ‘The power of the priest,’ says St. Bernardine of Sienna, ‘is the
       power of the divine person; for the transubstantiation of the bread requires as much
       power as the creation of the world.” St. Alphonsus de Liguori, Dignity and Duties of
       the Priest or Selva, pp. 33-34.

So what is the Sequence of Powers?

Where are we right now in the course of prophetic history? We are in a period of respite
from persecution just before the next to last stage:

      Babylon (605-539)

      Medes and Persians (539-331)

      Greece (331-168)




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 320 of 385
      Roman Empire (168-476)

      Divided Roman Empire (476-538)

      Papal Rome rules for 1260 years (538-1798)

      Deadly wound by France (1798)

      The rise of the beast with lamblike horns (1798)

      WE ARE HERE: A period of respite from persecution (the last 200+ years)

      The last event in the drama: THE LAND BEAST RETURNS POWER TO THE SEA
       BEAST.

We are in the Period of the Deadly Wound

Jesuit scholar, Malachi Martin stated in 1986:

“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, Rome had kept as strong a hand as possible in each
local community around the wide world. By and large, and admitting some exceptions, that
had been the Roman view until two hundred years of inactivity had been imposed upon the
papacy by the major secular powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity Today
(November 21, 1986), p. 26.

This is an extraordinary statement. If we move 200 years backwards in time from 1986,
we end up at the time of the French Revolution and the deadly wound when France took
away the power of the sword from the papacy. Thus Martin is admitting that the papacy
has been inactive for the past 200 years because secular governments have not given her
the power of the sword.

The Healing of the Wound

But Ellen G. White, who wrote one hundred years before Martin, predicted that the
restraints now imposed by the secular governments of the world will be removed and the
papacy will recover the civil sword:

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome be
reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and
persecution.” GC, p. 564

The wound will be healed when the beast with lamblike horns (the United States) helps
the first beast recover its power. We are told that at that time every country on the globe
will follow the example of the United States:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 321 of 385
“As America, the land of religious liberty, shall unite with the papacy in forcing the
conscience and compelling men to honor the false sabbath, the people of every country on
the globe will be led to follow her example.” 6T, p. 18

Right now we are at the very end of the prophetic chain—the moment when the deadly
wound will be healed! And there are clear signs that the United States is cozying up with
the papacy.

A Troubling Scenario

I was in Philadelphia for the pope’s recent visit to the United States. A million souls from
every religious persuasion and every country on the globe made great financial
sacrifices to come and see and hear him.

The relationship between the papacy and the government of the United States is getting
closer and closer. From the [1] Holy Alliance between the United States and the Vatican
to overthrow the Soviet Union, to the Pope [2] helping President Obama establish
diplomatic relations with Cuba, to the speaking to a [3] joint session of Congress, to the
Pope visiting the [4] White House to discuss policy matters. Should this concern us?
Where are the voices to raise the alarm?

Protestants are no More

Sadly, today most Christians are looking to the Middle East for the fulfillment of Bible
prophecy and therefore the powers that will play a role in the fulfillment of prophecy are
hidden from sight and practically all nations marvel after the papacy.

Great Protestant leaders have lined up to go to the Vatican: Tony Palmer, Joel Osteen,
James Robison, Rick Warren and Kenneth Copland.

Fulton Sheen

Think about what has happened in Philadelphia and then read the following two verses
and a remark by Archbishop Fulton Sheen:

John 17:14: The world hates rather than loves those who are faithful.

“I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them because they are not of the
world, just as I am not of the world.”

Revelation 13:3

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed. And all the world marveled and followed the beast.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 322 of 385
In the decade of the 1950’s Protestants in the United States were extremely suspicious of
the Roman Catholic papacy and strongly disliked it.

In 1955 (60 years ago) Fulton Sheen, apologist and radio and television pioneer of
Roman Catholicism, came on the airwaves with the following message:

"If I were not a Catholic, and were looking for the true Church in the world today, I would look
for the one Church which did not get along well with the world; in other words, I would
look for the Church which the world hated. My reason for doing this would be, that if Christ is
in any one of the churches of the world today, He must still be hated as He was when He was
on earth in the flesh. If you would find Christ today, then find the Church that does not get
along with the world. Look for the Church that is hated by the world as Christ was hated by
the world. Taken from Radio Replies, Vol. 1, p IX, Rumble & Carty, Tan Publishing

The papacy is no longer disliked so we should ask: Is the papal system now a counterfeit
church because it is loved? Would he say the same today or would he say that the most
popular and loved church in the world is the true church?

Why do we Exist?

“In a special sense Seventh-day Adventists have been set in the world as watchmen and light
bearers. To them has been entrusted the last warning for a perishing world. On them is
shining wonderful light from the word of God. They have been given a work of the most
solemn import--the proclamation of the first, second, and third angels' messages. There is no
other work of so great importance. They are to allow nothing else to absorb their
attention.” 9T, p. 19




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 323 of 385
“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 324 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                   by Pastor Stephen Bohr


       LESSON #17 – CHRIST AND ANTICHRIST

A False Impression

I Thessalonians 4:15-17: The second coming of Jesus

“For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the
coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. 16 For the Lord Himself
will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet
of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. 17 Then we who are alive and remain shall be
caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall
always be with the Lord.”
2 Thessalonians 2:1, 2: The second coming is not imminent

“Now, brethren, concerning the coming [parousia] of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering
together to Him, we ask you, 2 not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled, either by spirit
[vision] or by word [an oral report] or by letter, as if from us, as though the day of Christ
had come.”
The Apostasy

2 Thessalonians 2:3: Emphasis on the word ‘apostasy’
“Let no one deceive you by any means; for that Day [the parousia] will not come unless the
[the definite article denotes a specific apostasy] falling away [the word is apostasia
with the definite article] comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition . . .”

Note: The apostasy must take place before the Parousia of Jesus. The word ‘apostasy’ is
used classical Greek to describe a boat that is not well anchored at port and is slowly
drifting away. A boat cannot drift away from the port unless it was at the port. This verse is
referring to a drifting away from the apostolic gospel.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 325 of 385
The Man of Sin

2 Thessalonians 2:3: Emphasis on the expression ‘the man of sin’.

“Let no one deceive you by any means; for that Day will not come unless the falling away
comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition . . .”

I John 3:4: Sin is the transgression of the law so the antichrist must in some way
encourage people to sin. This is further confirmed by the fact that the apostasy is called ‘the
mystery of lawlessness’.

“Whoever commits sin also commits lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness.”

Daniel 7:25: One is reminded of the little horn that would arise the fragmentation of the
Roman Empire and would think to change God’s Law:

“He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute* the saints of the Most
High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand
for a time and times and half a time.”

The Man of Sin is Revealed

2 Thessalonians 2:3: Emphasis on the expression ‘is revealed’. The antonym of the word
‘revealed’ is ‘concealed’. The man of sin concealed his ugly head until the time came for
him to openly reveal himself.

“Let no one deceive you by any means; for that Day will not come unless the falling away
comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition . . .”

The Son of Perdition

2 Thessalonians 2:3: Emphasis on the expression ‘son of perdition’.

“Let no one deceive you by any means; for that Day will not come unless the falling away
comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition . . .”

Judas Iscariot

John 17:12: Jesus referred to Judas Iscariot with the same name so the character of the
antichrist must bear a marked resemblance to the character of Judas.

“While I was with them in the world, I kept them in Your name. Those whom You gave Me I
have kept; and none of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the Scripture might be
fulfilled.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 326 of 385
The Nature of the Antichrist

There is a fundamental confusion in the Christian World about the nature of the antichrist.
Most conservative Protestants teach that the antichrist will be an evil individual that
will sit in a rebuilt Jewish temple for three and a half literal years and will openly defy
God and blaspheme His name.

      Practically all Bible scholars agree that the man of sin, the little horn and the beast
       all represent the same power. It is noteworthy that in Prophecy a beast represents
       a kingdom, not an individual person.

      Prophecy informs us that the little horn would rule for a period of 1260 years. It is
       rather obvious that no individual has lived that long!

      The man of sin already existed in the days of the apostle Paul but was being
       restrained. This same man of sin will be destroyed by the brightness of Christ’s
       coming. There is not a person on planet earth who was alive in the days of Paul and
       will still be alive when Jesus comes.

      The expression ‘the man of sin’ (masculine/singular) would seem to refer to an
       individual. However, the masculine singular is used in other contexts for a
       succession of persons and not for lone individuals. For example, in Hebrews 9:7 the
       expression ‘the priest’ (masculine/singular) describes a succession of priests.
       Likewise in 1 Samuel 8:11 the expression ‘the king’ (masculine/singular) is used of
       a succession of kings. Finally, 2 Timothy 3:17 uses the expression ‘the man of God’
       to describe all Christians of all times.

The Scriptures teach that the antichrist will be political/religious system possessing the
same character qualities as Judas. It will be ambitious, covetous, and desirous of an earthly
kingdom. While overtly professing loyalty to Christ, the antichrist will work covertly to
betray Him.

Dave Hunt captured well the character of the antichrist:

“While the Greek prefix ‘anti’ generally means ‘against’ or ‘opposed to,’ it can also mean ‘in
the place of’ or ‘a substitute for.’ The Antichrist will embody both meanings. He will oppose
Christ while pretending to be Christ. Instead of a frontal assault against Christianity, the
evil one will pervert the church from within by posing as its founder. He will cunningly
misrepresent Christ while pretending to be Christ. And right here is where the plot thickens.
If the Antichrist will indeed pretend to be the Christ, then his followers must be ‘Christians!’”
Dave Hunt, Global Peace, p. 7-8.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 327 of 385
The Greek word antichristos has the same basic meaning, as does Vicarius Filii Dei in Latin.
Most people assume that the word antichrist means ‘one who is against Christ.’ It is true
that in Greek the preposition anti can mean ‘against’ when it is used with a verb. But it is
equally true that this preposition, when it is used as a prefix to a noun means ‘instead of,’
or ‘in place of.’ In classical Greek, for example, the word antibasileus means ‘one who
occupies the place of the king.’ In the New Testament, the name Herod Antipas means that
Herod ruled ‘in place of’ his father.’ (Revelation 2:13) The word antitype means ‘that which
takes the place of the type.’ Christ is spoken of as having given His life as a ransom in place
of (antilutron) all (I Timothy 2:6). Thus the word antichristos in Greek and Vicarius Filii Dei
in Latin bear a very similar meaning!

So the antichrist will not be an atheistic and blasphemous individual openly attacking
Christianity but rather a system that will claim to act in the place and name of Christ. On
is reminded of the strategy that has characterized Jesuit Pope Francis I during his
pontificate:

“When appearing as members of their order, they wore a garb of sanctity, visiting prisons
and hospitals, ministering to the sick and the poor, professing to have renounced the
world, and bearing the sacred name of Jesus, who went about doing good. But under this
blameless exterior the most criminal and deadly purposes were concealed.” GC, pp. 234, 235

The best description of the character of the Papacy that I have ever read is in the book The
Great Controversy:

“It is a part of her policy to assume the character which will best accomplish her purpose; but
beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon she conceals the invariable venom of
the serpent.” GC, p. 571

Let’s examine the character qualities of Judas Iscariot:

A Shrewd Administrator
The gospels portray Judas as a shrewd politician and a sharp businessman who craved
the praise of the world. He carried the moneybag. Ellen White describes this quality:

“He had come more into contact with the world than they, he was a man of good address, of
discernment and executive ability, and, having a high estimate of his own qualifications,
he had led the disciples to hold him in the same regard. But the methods he desired to
introduce into Christ's work were based upon worldly principles and were controlled by
worldly policy.” Education, p. 93.

“But Judas was a speculator. He thought that he could manage the finances of the church,
and by his sharpness in business get gain. He was divided in heart. He loved the praise of
the world. He refused to give up the world for Christ. He never committed his eternal
interests to Christ. He had a superficial religion, and therefore he speculated upon his



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 328 of 385
Master and betrayed Him to the priests, being fully persuaded that Christ would not allow
Himself to be taken. Judas was a religious fraud. He held up a high standard for others, but
he himself utterly failed to reach the Bible standard. He did not bring the religion of Christ
into his life.” 5BC, pp. 1101, 1102

“Judas summed up all the disciples, and flattered himself that the church would often be
brought into perplexity and embarrassment if it were not for his ability as a manager.
Judas regarded himself as the capable one, who could not be overreached. In his own
estimation he was an honor to the cause, and as such he always represented himself.” DA, p.
717

Judas Coveted an Earthly Kingdom

It was Judas’ strong desire that Jesus would establish an earthly kingdom. Contrary to what
many think, Judas did not deliver Jesus so that He would die. He betrayed Jesus in the hopes
that He would deliver Himself and establish an earthly kingdom.

“Judas was first to take advantage of the enthusiasm excited by the miracle of the loaves. It
was he who set on foot the project to take Christ by force and make Him king. His hopes
were high. His disappointment was bitter” DA, pp. 718, 719.

John 6:15:

When Jesus fed the five thousand it was Judas who encouraged the crowd to take Jesus by
force to make Him King. But Jesus would have none of it:

“Therefore when Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take Him by force to
make Him king, He departed again to the mountain by Himself alone.”

John 6:64, 70, 71

“But there are some of you who do not believe." For Jesus knew from the beginning who they
were who did not believe, and who would betray Him . . . 70 Jesus answered them, "Did I not
choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil?" 71 He spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of
Simon, for it was he who would betray Him, being one of the twelve.”

‘Notwithstanding the Savior's own teaching, Judas was continually advancing the idea that
Christ would reign as king in Jerusalem. At the feeding of the five thousand he tried to bring
this about . . . It was he who set on foot the project to take Christ by force and make Him king.
His hopes were high. His disappointment was bitter.” DA, pp. 718, 719

When Jesus washed the feet of the disciples, it was the straw that broke the camel’s back:

If Jesus could so humble Himself, he thought, He could not be Israel's king. All hope of
worldly honor in a temporal kingdom was destroyed. Judas was satisfied that there was
nothing to be gained by following Christ. After seeing Him degrade Himself, as he thought, he


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 329 of 385
was confirmed in his purpose to disown Him, and confess himself deceived. He was possessed
by a demon, and he resolved to complete the work he had agreed to do in betraying his Lord.”
DA, p. 645


Judas Coveted Money and Feigned a Love for the Poor

According to Matthew 8:19-21 Judas offered to become one of Jesus’ disciples and Jesus
informed him that there would be no financial benefit if he did:

“Then a certain scribe came and said to Him, "Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go." 20
And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man
has nowhere to lay His head."

John 12:4-6: Judas not only coveted earthly political power but he also coveted money.
When Jesus refused both, Judas chose to betray Him:
“But one of His disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who would betray Him, said, 5 "Why was
this fragrant oil not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?" 6 This he said,
not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the money box; and he
used to take what was put in it.”
Luke 22:3-6: He betrayed Jesus for money
“Then Satan entered Judas, surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve. 4 So
he went his way and conferred with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray Him
to them. 5 And they were glad, and agreed to give him money. 6 So he promised and sought
opportunity to betray Him to them in the absence of the multitude.”

 “Judas had naturally a strong love for money; but he had not always been corrupt enough to
do such a deed as this. He had fostered the evil spirit of avarice until it had become the ruling
motive of his life. The love of mammon overbalanced his love for Christ. Through becoming the
slave of one vice he gave himself to Satan, to be driven to any lengths in sin.” DA, p. 716
Became Satan’s Vicar
After feeding the 5,000 Jesus referred to Judas as ‘a devil’. Jesus knew that Judas was the
ringleader in the movement to force Him to take over the reins of the civil government to
become King.

John 6:70, 71: Jesus referred to Judas as a devil:
“Jesus answered them, "Did I not choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil?" 71 He
spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for it was he who would betray Him, being one of
the twelve.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 330 of 385
John 13:2: As Satan had done in heaven, Judas feigned support for Jesus while he was
secretly undermining Him. At this point Judas had not yet passed the point of no return:

“And supper being ended, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot,
Simon's son, to betray Him . . .”

John 13:27

“Now after the piece of bread, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him, "What you do, do
quickly."

“Judas became a representative of the enemy of Christ.” DA, p. 295

His Hypocrisy Deceived Even the Disciples


He was at the left of Jesus at the last supper. The parable of the sheep and the goats reveals
the significance of the right and the left sides:

“Judas pressed next to Christ on the left side; John was on the right. If there was a highest
place, Judas was determined to have it, and that place was thought to be next to Christ. And
Judas was a traitor.” DA, p. 644

Judas was a chameleon. He did not openly war against Jesus. Ellen White explains that he
manifested a ‘continuous, secret and subtle antagonism” Education, p. 92.

“Judas possessed a form of godliness, while his character was more satanic than divine. He
professed to be a disciple of Christ, but in words and in works denied Him.” The Sanctified
Life, p. 59

Matthew 26:25: Judas had the other disciples deceived until the very end:

The word ‘traitor’ refers to a person who professes loyalty to someone and yet works by
subterfuge to undermine him:

“Then Judas, who was betraying Him, answered and said, "Rabbi, is it I?" He said to him, "You
have said it."

John 13:26-29: Judas had a form of godliness and deceived his own colleagues. He was the
instrument in the hands of Satan to betray Jesus:

“Jesus answered, "It is he to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it." And
having dipped the bread, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 27 Now after the piece
of bread, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him, "What you do, do quickly." 28 But no
one at the table knew for what reason He said this to him. 29 For some thought, because



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 331 of 385
Judas had the money box, that Jesus had said to him, "Buy those things we need for the feast,"
or that he should give something to the poor.”
Betrayed Jesus with a Kiss

Luke 22:47, 48: Jesus delivered Jesus with a kiss:

“And while He was still speaking, behold, a multitude; and he who was called Judas, one of the
twelve, went before them and drew near to Jesus to kiss Him. 48 But Jesus said to him, "Judas,
are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?"

Judas went to Perdition (destruction)

Matthew 27:3-5: Judas went to perdition.

“Then Judas, His betrayer, seeing that He had been condemned, was remorseful and brought
back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, 4 saying, "I have sinned by
betraying innocent blood." And they said, "What is that to us? You see to it!" 5 Then he threw
down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed, and went and hanged himself.”

Summary of Characteristics:
      A shrewd politician and sharp administrator.
      Coveted political power and desired Christ to set up an earthly kingdom.
      Was covetous of money and earthly display.
      He feigned an interest in the poor.
      He became the vicar or representative of Satan.
      His hypocrisy deceived even those who were in the inner circle.
      He betrayed Jesus with a kiss.
      He was an enemy from the inside who feigned a love for Jesus.

Opposes God

2 Thessalonians 2:4: Emphasis on ‘opposes God’

“ . . . who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so
that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God.”

What does it mean to ‘oppose God’? Most scholars see the antichrist as one who openly
defies God. But the character of Judas clearly shows that the opposition is not overt but
rather covert. Judas professed to love Jesus and support Him but stealthily opposed Him.

The greatest enemies of Jesus were those who professed to serve God. Saul of Tarsus
claimed to defend God’s cause but was actually betraying it. The system we are talking
about claims to serve the true God but in its history it has persecuted and killed millions in



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 332 of 385
the name of God. The Roman Catholic Church would never admit that in killing the saints it
was opposing God.

John 16:2:

“They will put you out of the synagogues; yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will
think that he offers God service [when they are really opposing God].”

Acts 5:38, 39: While professing to serve God some actually oppose Him.

“And now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone; for if this plan or this
work is of men, it will come to nothing; 39 but if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it--lest you
even be found to fight against God."

According to the book Education, p. 92, Judas manifested a ‘continuous, secret and subtle
antagonism’ against Christ. He did not war openly but rather warred against Jesus in an
underhanded way.

The Act of Sitting

2 Thessalonians 2:4: Emphasis on ‘he sits’.
“. . . who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that
he sits [kathizo] as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God.”

Matthew 23:2: The Scribes and Pharisees sat (kathizo) on Moses’ seat (kathedra). They
claimed that when they spoke ex-cathedra (from the throne) their teachings were
infallible because they had received them in an unbroken line from Moses.

"The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat.”

“The phrase [sit on Moses’ Seat] is most probably a metaphor for the authority of the scribes
to teach. In rabbinical tradition the interpretation of the Law was carried on in a scribal
tradition that theoretically went back through an unbroken chain of scribes to Moses. This
view is, of course, entirely unhistorical.” (The Jerome Bible Commentary, volume 2 (New
York: Prentice Hall, Inc., 1968), p. 102)

In the Temple of God

2 Thessalonians 2:4: Emphasis on the expression ‘temple of God’.

“ . . . who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that
he sits as God* in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God.”

Matthew 21:12, 13: When Jesus entered the Jewish temple at the triumphal entry He
described the temple as ‘the temple of God’ and ‘My house’:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 333 of 385
“Then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold in the
temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold
doves. 13 And He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' but
you have made it a 'den of thieves.'"

Matthew 23:38: But when Jesus forsook the temple He said to the Jewish leadership:

“See! Your house is left to you desolate.”

Clearly, the Jewish temple was no longer God’s temple.

The apostle Paul helps us understand which temple the antichrist would sit in. In the mind
of the great apostle, the temple was a symbol of the Christian church. Paul never referred
to the Jewish temple as ‘the temple of God.’ To the contrary, he always referred to the
church as the spiritual temple.

Ephesians 2:19-22 (see also, 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 6:19, 20; 2 Corinthians 6:16; cf. 1
Peter 2:4-10): The spiritual temple of God is the church.

“Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints
and members of the household of God, 20 having been built on the foundation of the
apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, 21 in whom the
whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, 22 in whom you
also are being built together for a dwelling place of God [God is in the temple so the
antichrist attempts to take His place] in the Spirit.”

Note: There are two Greek words that are translated ‘temple’ in the New Testament. One is
hieron and the other is naos. The apostle Paul never uses the word naos to refer to the
Jewish temple. Without exception he uses the word naos as a reference to the spiritual
temple, the Christian church. In the book of Acts the Jewish ‘temple’ is referred to 25 times
and it is never called naos. Furthermore, no even once in any of the epistles is the word
naos applied to the literal Jewish temple.

Pope Benedict XVI at the conclusion of the week for Christian unity in St. Paul’s Outside
the Wall sat on a great white throne and on each side was a cherub. This reminds one of
YHW who sits between the cherubim (Psalm 80:1).

Paul had warned them

2 Thessalonians 2:5 Paul had taught the Thessalonians these things:

“Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things?”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 334 of 385
The Mysterious Restrainer

2 Thessalonians 2:6, 7: In the times of the apostle Paul something/someone was
preventing the antichrist from openly rising to power. He was chomping at the bit but was
restrained:
“And now you know what [neuter] is restraining, that he may be revealed in his own time. 7
For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work; only He [masculine] who now restrains
will do so until He [masculine] is taken out of the way.”
Romans 13:4: In the times of the apostle Paul the Roman Empire/emperor ruled the world
and had the power of the sword. The man of sin could not rise to power until the Roman
Empire was taken out of the way.

 Some have concluded that the continuous use of the masculine pronoun ‘he’ in 2
Thessalonians 2:6 indicates a single person rather than a succession of individuals. The
problem with this argument is that Paul repeatedly uses the masculine pronoun ‘he’ in
Romans 13:4 to refer to all of the rulers of the Roman Empire (as indicated by the words
‘governing authorities’ and ‘rulers’ in verses 1 and 3):

“ . . . porque [el] es servidor de Dios para tu bien. Pero si haces lo malo, teme; porque no en

vano lleva [el] la espada, pues [el] es servidor de Dios, vengador para castigar al que hace lo
malo.”

“For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does not bear the
sword in vain; for he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices
evil.”

Daniel 7:23, 24: The Roman Empire had to be divided into ten kingdoms before the
antichrist could rise to power. The invasion of the barbarian tribes divided the Roman
Empire into ten kingdoms and then the little horn rose to power. This is THE APOSTASY of
which the apostle Paul wrote.
"Thus he said: 'The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different
from all other kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, trample it and break it in pieces.
24 The ten horns are ten kings who shall arise from this kingdom and another shall rise
after them; he shall be different from the first ones, and shall subdue three kings.”


Revelation 13:2: The ten-horned dragon gave his throne and authority to the beast:

 “Now the beast [that ruled for 42 months] which I saw was like a leopard, his feet were like
the feet of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. The dragon [the power that
attempted to kill the male child] gave him his power, his throne, and great authority.”
“In the sixth century [538] the papacy had become firmly established. Its seat of power was
fixed in the imperial city, and the bishop of Rome was declared to be the head over the


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 335 of 385
entire church. Paganism had given place to the papacy. The dragon had given to the beast
"his power, and his seat, and great authority" Revelation 13:2. And now began the 1260
years of papal oppression foretold in the prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation. Daniel 7:25;
Revelation 13:5-7.” GC, p. 54
Between the year 300 AD and the year 476 AD hordes of barbarian tribes from the north
invaded and carved up the Roman Empire. In the year 330 AD emperor Constantine
removed the see of the Roman Empire to Constantinople thus weakening the political
power of Rome in the west. Romulus Augustulus, the last emperor of the western empire
was deposed in the year 476 AD. Without an emperor, the Empire was thrown into
turmoil. The barbarian incursions into the Roman Empire turned it upside down and left it
without a civil ruler who could preserve law and order. In the midst of this chaotic
situation, the Bishop of Rome was enticed to take the reins of civil power and bring
about order in the empire. As a result, the bishop of Rome was not only the spiritual
leader of the church but also became the temporal ruler of the state. Thus the Roman
Empire was taken out of the way to give way to the papacy.

Cardinal Edward Manning described the manner in which the Roman Pontiff originally
gained his civil power in the Roman Empire. Manning explained what occurred when the
Roman Empire was invaded and torn apart by the barbarian invasions:

“Now the abandonment of Rome was the liberation of the pontiffs. Whatsoever claims to
obedience the emperors may have made, and whatsoever compliance the Pontiff may have
yielded, the whole previous relation, anomalous, and annulled again and again by the vices
and outrages of the emperors, was finally dissolved by a higher power. The providence of God
permitted a succession of irruptions, Gothic, Lombard, and Hungarian, to desolate Italy, and
to efface from it every remnant of the empire. The pontiffs found themselves alone, the
sole fountains of order, peace, law, and safety. And from the hour of this providential
liberation, when, by a divine intervention, the chains fell off from the hands of the successor
of St. Peter, as once before from his own, no sovereign has ever reigned in Rome except the
Vicar of Jesus Christ.” Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ, Preface, pp. xxviii, xxix. London: Burns and Lambert, 1862

Manning further explains:

“It [the papacy] waited until such a time as God should break its bonds asunder, and should
liberate it from subjection to civil powers, and enthrone it in the possession of a temporal
sovereignty of its own.” Henry Edward Manning, The Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus
Christ (London: Burns & Lambert, second edition, 1862), pp. 11-13

Manning is saying that when the civil power of Rome was removed by the barbarians, and
the emperor Constantine moved the see of the Empire to Constantinople, the bishop of
Rome filled the vacuum and became the arbiter in civil affairs as well as in religious.
Remarkably, Manning refers to this taking over of civil power by the bishop of Rome with



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 336 of 385
expressions such as “breaking bonds asunder”, and “chains falling off”, terminology that
is reminiscent of 2 Thessalonians 2. The dragon had given the beast ‘his power, his throne
and great authority’ (Revelation 13:2).

The noted Bible commentator, Albert Barnes, wrote about the meaning of 2 Thessalonians
2:7:

“The supposition which will best suit this language is, that there was then some civil
restraint, preventing the development of existing corruptions, but that there would be a
removal, or withdrawing of that restraint; and that then the tendency of the existing
corruptions would be seen. It is evident, as Oldshausen remarks, that this resisting or
restraining power must be something out of the church, and distinguished from the anti-
Christian tendency itself . . . It is necessary, therefore, to understand this of the restraints of
civil power. Was there, then, any fact in history which will accord with this interpretation?
The belief among the primitive Christians was, that what hindered the rise of the man of sin
was the Roman Empire, and therefore "they prayed for its peace and welfare, as knowing
that when the Roman Empire should be dissolved and broken in pieces, the empire of the
man of sin would be raised on its ruins" From Barnes' Notes, Electronic Database Copyright ©
1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.

As we have seen, in cryptic language, the apostle Paul had already referred this moment
when the civil power of the Roman Empire would be given over to papal Rome. In 2
Thessalonians 2:6, 7 the apostle referred to the removal of the mysterious restrainer of 2
Thessalonians 2:6, 7:

“And now you know what is restraining [the civil power of the Roman Empire], that he may
be revealed in his own time [once the restrainer was taken out of the way]. For the mystery of
lawlessness is already at work; only He [the emperor] who now restrains will do so until He
is taken out of the way.”

The early church Fathers were practically unanimous in the opinion that the ‘restrainer’
was a reference to the Roman Empire in general and to the emperors in particular. In verse
5 the apostle refers to what was restraining (using the neuter article to katechon) but in
verse 7 he refers to who was restraining (using the masculine article ho katechon). By his
use of language, Paul indicates that the Church at Thessalonica knew who the restrainer
was and what was restraining. And yet Paul wrote in veiled, cryptic language. Why didn’t
Paul just come out and write openly that the Roman Empire was the restrainer that would
be taken out of the way?

The answer is obvious. If Paul had said openly that the Roman Empire would be taken out
of the way, the Roman government would have had grounds to accuse Paul of sedition. So
Paul had to be cautious in the language that he used.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 337 of 385
Dispensationalists (Evangelicals who believe in the Rapture of the church before the
tribulation) generally agree that the restrainer is the Holy Spirit who will be removed
before the tribulation. But if this were true, then why would there be any need for Paul to
be so cautious? It is clear that Paul could not define the ‘restrainer’ openly. It was not
necessary to do so because the Thessalonians knew what power he was writing about.

You will notice in the comment by Cardinal Manning that the fall of the Roman Empire led
to the ‘liberation’ of the Roman Pontiff. In other words, before this he was restrained. You
will also notice that the fall of the Roman Empire is described as chains falling off the
hands of the successor of St. Peter. The inevitable conclusion we reach from Manning’s
words is that the fall of the empire removed or took away the restraint placed upon the
Bishop of Rome.

The Ante-Nicene Fathers

Now let us turn to the writings of the early church Fathers to see how they understood the
‘restrainer’. It must be noted that church fathers were living in the very period when these
things took place.

Let us begin with Tertullian (160-240 AD):

“’For the mystery of iniquity doth already work; only he who now hinders must hinder, until
he be taken out of the way.’ What obstacle is there but the Roman state, the falling away of
which, by being scattered into ten kingdoms, shall introduce Antichrist upon (its own
ruins)? ‘And then shall be revealed the wicked one.’” ‘On the Resurrection of the Flesh,’
chapter 24; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. III, p. 563 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1908]

Tertullian also wrote:

“The very end of all things threatening dreadful woes is only retarded by the continued
existence of the Roman Empire.” (‘Apology,’ chapter 32; Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. III, p. 43)

Lactantius, who lived in the early Fourth Century, wrote:

“The subject itself declares that the fall and ruin of the world will shortly take place; except
that while the city of Rome remains, it appears that nothing of this kind is to be feared.
But when that capital of the world shall have fallen, and shall have begun to be a street,
which the Sibyls say shall come to pass, who can doubt that the end has now arrived to the
affairs of men and the whole world? It is that city, that only, which still sustains all
things.” (‘The Divine Institutes,’ book 7, chapter 25; Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. VII, p. 220)

Cyril of Jerusalem (318-386 AD) had this to write about the mysterious restrainer:

“But this aforesaid Antichrist is to come when the times of the Roman Empire shall have
been fulfilled, and the end of the world is drawing near. There shall rise up together ten
kings of the Romans, reigning in different parts perhaps, but all about the same time; and


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 338 of 385
after those an eleventh, the Antichrist, who by his magical craft shall seize upon the Roman
power; and of the kings who reigned before him, ‘three he shall humble,’ and the remaining
seven he shall keep in subjection to himself.” (‘Catechetical Lectures’ Section 15, on II
Thessalonians 2:4; Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. VII, p. 108 [New York: The
Christian Literature Company, 1895])

Next we present the testimony of Ambrose (died in 398 AD):

“After the falling or decay of the Roman Empire, Antichrist shall appear.” (Quoted in,
Bishop Thomas Newton, Dissertations on the Prophecies, p. 463 [London: B. Blake, 1840])

Next in line is Chrysostom (died in 407 AD):

“When the Roman Empire is taken out of the way, then he [the Antichrist] shall come. And
naturally. For as long as the fear of this empire lasts, no one will willingly exalt himself, but
when that is dissolved, he will attack the anarchy, and endeavor to seize upon the
government both of man and of God.” ‘Homily IV on 2 Thessalonians 2:6-9,’Nicene and Post-
Nicene Fathers’, vol. XIII, p. 389 [New York: Charles Scribner’s and Sons, 1905]

Finally we will quote from Jerome (died 420 AD):

“He that letteth is taken out of the way, and yet we do not realize that Antichrist is near.”
(Letter to Ageruchia, written about 409 A. D. Letter 123, section 16; Nicene and Post-
Nicene Fathers, vol. VI, p. 236 [New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1912]).

Church Historians

Scores of church historians have said the same:

“Long ages ago, when Rome through the neglect of the Western emperors was left to the
mercy of the barbarous hordes, the Romans turned to one figure for aid and protection, and
asked him to rule them; and thus, in this simple manner, the best title of all to kingly right,
commenced the temporal sovereignty of the popes. And meekly stepping to the throne of
Caesar, the Vicar of Christ took up the scepter to which the emperors and kings of Europe
were to bow in reverence through so many ages.” James P. Conroy, American Catholic
Quarterly Review, April, 1911.

“Under the Roman Empire [stage #1] the popes had no temporal powers. But when the
Roman Empire had disintegrated [stage#2] and its place had been taken by a number of
rude, barbarous kingdoms, the Roman Catholic Church [stage #3] not only became
independent of the states in religious affairs but dominated secular affairs as well.” Carl
Conrad Eckhardt, The Papacy and World Affairs (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1937), p. 1

Church historian, R. W. Southern further explains the relationship between the papacy and
the state during the Middle Ages:


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 339 of 385
“During the whole medieval period there was in Rome a single spiritual and temporal
authority [the papacy] exercising powers which in the end exceeded those that had ever lain
within the grasp of the Roman emperor.” (R. W. Southern, Western Society and the Church in
the Middle Ages, volume 2), pp. 24-25

Church historian John N. Figgis adds his testimony:

“[In] the Middle Ages the church was not a State, it was the State; or rather, the civil
authority (for a separate society was not recognized), was merely the police department of
the Church.” John N. Figgis, From Gerson to Grotius, p. 4

This idea of the church ruling in temporal as well as in spiritual affairs was fleshed out in
1302 when Pope Boniface VIII wrote a significant bull (personal letter) titled Unam
Sanctam.

“We are informed by the texts of the gospels that in this [Roman Catholic] Church and in its
power are two swords; namely, the spiritual and the temporal. Both, therefore, are in the
power of the Church, that is to say, the spiritual and the material sword, but the former [the
spiritual] is to be administered for the Church but the latter [the temporal] by the Church; the
former in the hands of the priest; the latter by the hands of kings and soldiers, but at the will
and sufferance of the priest.”

Notably, Malachi Martin, the Jesuit exorcist who wrote the groundbreaking book The Keys
of This Blood, inadvertently agreed with Ellen White:

“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, [papal] Rome had kept as strong a hand as possible in
each local community around the wide world. . . . By and large, and admitting some
exceptions, that had been the Roman view until two hundred years of inactivity had been
imposed upon the papacy by the major secular powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity
Today (November 21, 1986), p. 26

Revelation 20 helps us understand what it means to be bound or restrained and unbound
or unrestrained. When Satan is able to use the civil rulers of the world to accomplish his
purposes he is unbound. But when the kings are dead, he is bound.

‘In His Time’

2 Thessalonians 2:6: What is the meaning of the expression ‘in his time’? The reflexive
pronoun (‘his own’) indicates that the man of sin would arise at a specific time. The little
horn prophecy indicates that there was a set time for the little horn to rise to power: ‘time,
times and the dividing of time.’

“And now you know what is restraining, that he may be revealed in his own time.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 340 of 385
The Mystery of Iniquity

2 Thessalonians 2:7: The mystery of iniquity was already at work in the days of Paul. It
must be remembered that sin is the transgression of the law. (I John 3:4)

“For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work; only He [the emperor] who now restrains
will do so until he [the emperor] taken out of the way [by the barbarian invasions].”

1798 not the End of the Story

Ellen G. White has some interesting statements regarding how the secular power was
removed and the papacy was able to ascend to power:

“The spirit of compromise and conformity [of the early Christian church] was restrained for a
time by the fierce persecutions which the church endured under paganism [the Roman
Empire]. But as persecution ceased, and Christianity entered the courts and palaces of
kings, she laid aside the humble simplicity of Christ and His apostles for the pomp and pride
of pagan priests and rulers; and in place of the requirements of God, she substituted human
theories and traditions.” GC, p. 49.

“The vast empire of Rome crumbled to pieces, and from its ruins rose that mighty power,
the Roman Catholic Church. This church boasts of her infallibility and her hereditary religion”
1MR, p. 50

The late Malachi Martin the Jesuit exorcist of the Roman Catholic Church and author of the
best-selling book, The Keys of this Blood, said in 1986:

“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, Rome had kept as strong a hand as possible in each
local community around the wide world. . . . By and large, and admitting some exceptions, that
had been the Roman view until two hundred years of inactivity had been imposed upon the
papacy by the major secular powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity Today
(November 21, 1986), p. 26.

If we move back 200 years from 1986 we arrive at the time of the French Revolution 1789-
1799 at the end of which the papacy received the deadly wound at the hands of the French
government. In this way, Malachi Martin is inadvertently admitted that the French
Revolution brought the secular powers into existence that have kept the deadly wound in
place and rendered the Papacy inactive.

And so, in 1798, the handcuffs that had fallen off the hands of the papacy in 538 AD were
once again slapped on the papacy by the major secular powers of the world. As a result, the
papacy has been inactive for the last two hundred years. But when the secular power is
taken out of the way, the papacy will once again exert its power. Ellen White predicted:




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 341 of 385
“Let the restraints [similar terminology to 2 Thessalonians 2] now imposed by secular
governments be removed [taken out of the way] and Rome be reinstated in her former
power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and persecution.” Ellen G. White,
GC, p. 564.

The Issue in the End Time Conflict

Revelation 12:17:

“And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the rest of her
offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.”

      The little horn thought that it could change God’s law
      The antichrist is called the man of sin
      The man of sin is called the mystery of lawlessness
      The final warfare against God’s people involves the commandments of God

A Powerful Miracle Worker

2 Thessalonians 2:8: Jesus will destroy the man of lawlessness at the second coming.

“And then the lawless one [the transgressor of the law] will be revealed, whom the Lord
will consume with the breath of His mouth and destroy with the brightness of His coming
[parousia].”

2 Thessalonians 2:9: But before the second coming, the man of sin will counterfeit the
second coming of Jesus:

“The coming [parousia] of the lawless one is according to the working of Satan, with all
power, signs, and lying wonders . . .”

Acts 2:22: The identical Greek words, ‘power, signs and wonders’ are used in only one
other verse in the New Testament to describe the miracles that Jesus performed. This
means that the antichrist will counterfeit the miracles that Jesus performed while He was
on earth.

"Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a Man attested by God to you by miracles,
wonders, and signs which God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves also know...”

“As the crowning act in the great drama of deception, Satan himself will personate Christ. The
church has long professed to look to the Savior's advent as the consummation of her hopes.
Now the great deceiver will make it appear that Christ has come. In different parts of the
earth, Satan will manifest himself among men as a majestic being of dazzling brightness,
resembling the description of the Son of God given by John in the Revelation (Revelation 1:13-
15). The glory that surrounds him is unsurpassed by anything that mortal eyes have yet


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 342 of 385
beheld. The shout of triumph rings out upon the air: "Christ has come! Christ has come!" The
people prostrate themselves in adoration before him, while he lifts up his hands and
pronounces a blessing upon them, as Christ blessed His disciples when He was upon the earth.
His voice is soft and subdued, yet full of melody. In gentle, compassionate tones he presents
some of the same gracious, heavenly truths that the Savior uttered; he heals the diseases of
the people, and then, in his assumed character of Christ, he claims to have changed the
Sabbath to Sunday, and commands all to hallow the day which he has blessed. He declares
that those who persist in keeping holy the seventh day are blaspheming his name by refusing
to listen to his angels sent to them with light and truth. This is the strong, almost
overmastering delusion [an allusion to II Thessalonians 2].” GC, p. 624

Our only protection at that time will be to know how Jesus will come and what His word
teaches about the manner of his coming and the Sabbath/Sunday issue:

“But the people of God will not be misled. The teachings of this false christ are not in
accordance with the Scriptures. His blessing is pronounced upon the worshipers of the beast
and his image, the very class upon whom the Bible declares that God's unmingled wrath shall
be poured out.

And, furthermore, Satan is not permitted to counterfeit the manner of Christ's advent. The
Saviour has warned His people against deception upon this point, and has clearly foretold the
manner of His second coming. "There shall arise false christs, and false prophets, and shall
show great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very
elect. . . . Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, He is in the desert; go not forth; behold,
He is in the secret chambers; believe it not. For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and
shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be." Matthew 24:24-27,
31; 25:31; Revelation 1:7; 1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17. This coming there is no possibility of
counterfeiting. It will be universally known--witnessed by the whole world.

Only those who have been diligent students of the Scriptures and who have received the love
of the truth will be shielded from the powerful delusion that takes the world captive. By the
Bible testimony these will detect the deceiver in his disguise.” GC, p. 625

Why People will Accept the Counterfeit

2 Thessalonians 2:10: People will be lost because they refused to receive the love of the
truth:

“. . .and with all unrighteous deception among those who perish, because they did not receive
the love of the truth that they might be saved.”

John 17:17: God’s word is truth.

“Sanctify them by Your truth. Your word is truth.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 343 of 385
Psalm 119:142: The law of God is the truth.

“Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Your law is truth.”

2 Thessalonians 2:11-13: Counterfeit Christians will refuse to believe the truth

“And for this reason God will send them strong delusion, that they should believe the lie
[pseudos: the counterfeit second coming], 12 that they all may be condemned who did not
believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 344 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    LESSON #18 – CATHOLICS, PROTESTANTS
              AND WORLDLINGS

Introductory Statement

“The agencies of evil are combining their forces and consolidating. They are
strengthening for the last great crisis. Great changes are soon to take place in our world,
and the final movements will be rapid ones.” 9T, p. 11

A Global Union

Revelation 16:13, 14: A threefold union that will form a worldwide confederacy.

Identify the beast, the false prophet and the dragon.

“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the
mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. 14 For they are spirits of
demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to
gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.”

Ellen White describes the union:

"These have one mind." There will be a universal bond of union, one great harmony, a
confederacy of Satan's forces. "And shall give their power and strength unto the beast." Thus
is manifested the same arbitrary, oppressive power against religious liberty, freedom to
worship God according to the dictates of conscience, as was manifested by the Papacy, when
in the past it persecuted those who dared to refuse to conform with the religious rites and
ceremonies of Romanism.” 1MR, p. 297




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 345 of 385
Identifying the Three Powers

We must identify who these powers are. They are identified earlier in the book:

Revelation 12: The dragon (is this spiritualism?)

Revelation 13:1-10: The Beast

Revelation 13:11-18: The False Prophet

      The beast represents the papacy
      The false prophet represents apostate Protestantism
      The dragon

But does the dragon represent?

In Revelation 12 it represents the secular civil power of Rome. Ellen White calls it the
Roman element.

      Satan working through Pagan Rome to kill the child.
      Satan working through the kings of Europe to destroy the woman.
      Satan working through the United States and the kings of the world to destroy the
       remnant.

Revelation 19: The beast, false prophet and the kings.

Notice the following quotation from Ellen White on the identity of the dragon:

“Kings and rulers and governors [we call these the ‘secular power’] have placed upon
themselves the brand of antichrist, and are represented as the dragon who goes to make
war with the saints--with those who keep the commandments of God and who have the faith
of Jesus. In their enmity against the people of God, they show themselves guilty also of the
choice of Barabbas instead of Christ.” TM, p. 38

The threefold union and why they unite:

Miracles, no Bible standard to evaluate them by and the result is deception.

“The line of distinction between professed Christians [Catholics and Protestants] and the
ungodly [same as world] is now [what would she say today?] hardly distinguishable.
Church members love what the world loves [dress, money, houses, lands,
entertainment, power, fame and position] and are ready to join with them [with
worldlings], and Satan determines to unite them in one body and thus strengthen his cause
by sweeping all into the ranks of spiritualism. Papists, who [1] boast of miracles as a
certain sign of the true church, will be readily deceived by this wonder-working power; and
Protestants, having [2] cast away the shield of truth, will also be deluded. Papists,



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 346 of 385
Protestants, and worldlings will alike accept the form of godliness without the power
[1Timothy 3; pursue], and they will see in this union a grand movement for the conversion of
the world [evangelization] and the ushering in of the long-expected millennium.” GC, pp.
588, 589

The Bible and Worldlings

1 John 2:15, 16

“Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the
Father is not in him. 16 For all that is in the world ó the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes,
and the pride of life ó is not of the Father but is of the world. 17 And the world is passing
away, and the lust of it; but he who does the will of God abides forever.”

James 4:4

“Adulterers and adulteresses! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with
God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.”

Ellen White and Worldlings

A worldling is focused on the here and now and not on the sweet by a by. His life is
centered in this world—its dress, its entertainment, its buildings, its money, its pleasures
and its culture.

“God designs that His people shall fix their eyes heavenward, looking for the glorious
appearing of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. While the attention of worldlings is turned
to various enterprises, ours should be to the heavens; our faith should reach further and
further into the glorious mysteries of the heavenly treasure, drawing the precious, divine
rays of light from the heavenly sanctuary to shine in our hearts, as they shine upon the face of
Jesus.” 2T, pp. 194, 195

Worldlings are the secular, the unchurched, and the irreligious.

The secular ruling civil powers are included:

“A profession of religion has become popular with the world. Rulers, politicians, lawyers,
doctors, merchants, join the church as a means of securing the respect and confidence of
society, and advancing their own worldly interests. Thus they seek to cover all their
unrighteous transactions under a profession of Christianity. The various religious bodies, re-
enforced by the wealth and influence of these baptized worldlings, make a still higher bid for
popularity and patronage.” GC, p. 386




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 347 of 385
Ellen White defines worldlings:

“The principle illustrated in the lives of worldlings is to get, get.” AA, p. 339

“The desire for excitement and pleasing entertainment is a temptation and a snare to God's
people and especially to the young. Satan is constantly preparing inducements to attract
minds from the solemn work of preparation for scenes just in the future. Through the
agency of worldlings he keeps up a continual excitement to induce the unwary to join in
worldly pleasures. There are shows, lectures, and an endless variety of entertainments
that are calculated to lead to a love of the world; and through this union with the world,
faith is weakened.” AH, p. 522

“Worldlings spend much on dress. But the Lord has charged His people to come out from
the world and be separate [1 Corinthians 6:14-18]. Gay or expensive apparel is not
becoming to those who profess to believe that we are living in the last days.” CG, p. 420

“Worldlings are constantly striving to exalt themselves one above another; but Jesus, the
Son of God, humbled himself in order to uplift man. The true disciple of Christ will follow his
example.” CE, pp. 179, 180

“Christians seek to build as worldlings build, to dress as worldlings dress--to imitate the
customs and practices of those who worship only the god of this world.” CC, p. 147

“Those who seek the education that the world esteems so highly are gradually led farther
and farther from the principles of truth, until they become educated worldlings. At what a
price have they gained their education! They have parted with the Holy Spirit of God. They
have chosen to accept what the world calls knowledge in the place of the truths which God
has committed to men through his ministers and apostles and prophets [the Bible].” CT, pp.
15, 16

“The accession of members who have not been renewed in heart and reformed in life is a
source of weakness to the church. This fact is often ignored. Some ministers and churches are
so desirous of securing an increase of numbers that they do not bear faithful testimony
against unchristian habits and practices. Those who accept the truth are not taught that
they cannot safely be worldlings in conduct while they are Christians in name. Heretofore
they were Satan's subjects; henceforth they are to be subjects of Christ. The life must testify to
the change of leaders.” Evangelism, p. 319

“The world's policy is to acquire money and advantages in any way that they can be obtained.
An accumulation of this world's treasure is the ambition of worldlings.” HP, p. 300

“Says the great deceiver: " . . . The Sabbath is the great question which is to decide the destiny
of souls. We must exalt the sabbath of our creating. We have caused it to be accepted by both
worldlings and church members; now the church must be led to unite with the world in its




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 348 of 385
support. We must work by signs and wonders to blind their eyes to the truth, and lead them to
lay aside reason and the fear of God and follow custom and tradition.” Maranatha, p. 163

“God has called us to glory and virtue. We have no right to assimilate with the world—
dressing, talking, and living as worldlings do.” Peter’s Counsel to Parents, p. 24

“In the last conflict the Sabbath will be the special point of controversy throughout all
Christendom. Secular rulers and religious leaders [notice that the two are separate] will
unite to enforce the observance of the Sunday; and as milder measures fail, the most
oppressive laws will be enacted. It will be urged that the few who stand in opposition to an
institution of the church and a law of the land ought not to be tolerated . . . Romanism in
the Old World, and apostate Protestantism in the New, will pursue a similar course toward
those who honor the divine precepts.” Mar 188

“The principle of worldlings is to get all they can of the perishable things of this life. Selfish
love of gain is the ruling principle in their lives. But the purest joy is not found in riches nor
where covetousness is always craving, but where contentment reigns and where self-
sacrificing love is the ruling principle.” 3T, p. 382

“As a people, we are looked upon as peculiar. Our position and faith distinguish us from
every other denomination. If we are in life and character no better than worldlings, they
will point the finger of scorn at us and say: "These are Seventh-day Adventists." 5T, p. 138

“We are living amidst the perils of the last days. Something decisive must be said to warn our
people against the danger of permitting children who need parental care and instruction, to
leave their homes to go to places where they will be brought into contact with pleasure-
loving, irreligious worldlings.” 8T, p. 224.1

“The true follower of Christ will not do as the wicked worldlings do, because it is
fashionable to be sinful.” RH October 25, 1881

One example that can unite Christians and worldlings: Climate Change
as a uniting element:

      Climate change and the common good. A document prepared by the Pontifical
       Academy of Sciences and the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences (April
       2015).

      The Pope to the United States joint session of Congress in September of 2015.

      Speech to the United Nations.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 349 of 385
   Meeting in Paris in December of world leaders to discuss climate change. With a
    global economy, sanctions can be applied worldwide.

   Sunday is an integral part to save the planet and give time for family, personal
    spiritual renewal and church attendance. The pressure is already huge in the
    European Union.

   The pretext will be to save the planet and everyone will go along when the
    disasters get bad enough.


   Ban Ki-Moon: The secretary-general [Ban KI-Moon] welcomes the papal
    encyclical released today by His Holiness Pope Francis which highlights that
    climate change is one of the principal challenges facing humanity, and that it is
    a moral issue requiring respectful dialogue with all parts of society. The
    secretary-general notes the encyclical’s findings that there is “a very solid
    scientific consensus” showing significant warming of the climate system and
    that most global warming in recent decades is “mainly a result of human
    activity”.

    Ban called on governments to “place the global common good above national
    interests and to adopt an ambitious, universal climate agreement” at the UN
    climate summit in Paris this December.

    There are shades of the Pope’s own language there. In the encyclical, he says:
    “International [climate] negotiations cannot make significant progress due to
    positions taken by countries which place their national interests above the global
    common good”.

Obama on the Pope’s encyclical:

I welcome His Holiness Pope Francis's encyclical, and deeply admire the Pope's
decision to make the case - clearly, powerfully, and with the full moral authority of his
position - for action on global climate change.

As Pope Francis so eloquently stated this morning, we have a profound responsibility
to protect our children, and our children's children, from the damaging impacts of
climate change. I believe the United States must be a leader in this effort, which is why
I am committed to taking bold actions at home and abroad to cut carbon pollution, to
increase clean energy and energy efficiency, to build resilience in vulnerable



    “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 350 of 385
   communities, and to encourage responsible stewardship of our natural resources. We
   must also protect the world's poor, who have done the least to contribute to this
   looming crisis and stand to lose the most if we fail to avert it.

   I look forward to discussing these issues with Pope Francis when he visits the White
   House in September. And as we prepare for global climate negotiations in Paris this
   December, it is my hope that all world leaders--and all God's children--will reflect on
   Pope Francis's call to come together to care for our common home.

No mention of the second coming as the hope of humanity. What is it that causes climate
change?

Led by the Spirit, Ellen wrote:

“The restraining Spirit of God [the four angels at the four winds] is even now being
withdrawn from the world. Hurricanes, storms, tempests, fire and flood, disasters by sea and
land, follow each other in quick succession. Science seeks to explain all these. The signs
thickening around us, telling of the near approach of the Son of God, are attributed to any
other than the true cause. Men cannot discern the sentinel angels restraining the four that
they shall not blow until the servants of God are sealed; but when God shall bid His angels
loose the winds, there will be such a scene of strife as no pen can picture.” 6T, p. 408

Satan has an agenda behind all these disasters:

“Satan works through the elements also to garner his harvest of unprepared souls. He has
studied the secrets of the laboratories of nature, and he uses all his power to control the
elements as far as God allows . . . In accidents and calamities by sea and by land, in great
conflagrations, in fierce tornadoes and terrific hailstorms, in tempests, floods, cyclones,
tidal waves, and earthquakes, in every place and in a thousand forms, Satan is exercising
his power. He sweeps away the ripening harvest, and famine and distress follow. He imparts
to the air a deadly taint, and thousands perish by the pestilence. These visitations are to
become more and more frequent and disastrous. Destruction will be upon both man and
beast. "The earth mourneth and fadeth away," "the haughty people . . . do languish. The earth
also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws,
changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant" Isaiah 24:4, 5. And then the great
deceiver will persuade men that those who serve God are causing these evils.” GC, p. 589

Solidarity and the Common Good

To begin with we must say that the papacy’s social theory has been proved to fail miserably
for over one thousand years. The papacy has a very bad track record to be lecturing the
capitalist nations of the Western Hemisphere. Europe was in ignorance, disease, and



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 351 of 385
poverty during this period. It was only when Protestantism came on the scene that these
evils were to a great degree overcome. Capitalism promotes individualism, creativity,
competition for excellence, productivity, a strong work ethic, and progress. The Roman
Catholic ideal promotes just the opposite.

St. Thomas Aquinas:

“In cases of need, all things are common property, so that there would seem to be no sin in
taking another’s property, for need has made it common.” Summa Theologiae, ii-ii, 7th article

St. Augustine:

It all began with St. Augustine’s City of God. His idea was that the church should control the
civil governments of the world and in this way establish God’s universal kingdom of peace
on earth.

St. Augustine interpreted the stone of Daniel 2 as the church conquering the kingdoms of
the world and bringing about the kingdom of God on earth. Anyone who objected to this
scenario was to be exterminated. Augustine provided the theological basis for the
Inquisition.

Words of Thomas Aquinas:

“In order that spiritual matters might be kept separate from temporal ones, the ministry of
this [spiritual] kingdom was entrusted not to earthly kings but to priests and especially to the
highest of them, the successor of St. Peter, Vicar of Christ, the Roman Pontiff, to whom all
kings must be subject just as they are subject to our Lord Jesus. For those whom the care of
an intermediate end pertains should be subject to him to whom the care of the ultimate end
belongs and be directed by his rule.” The Political Ideas of St. Thomas Aquinas, p. 100

Bernard of Clairvaux (1090-1153)

“We can therefore conclude that both swords, namely the spiritual and the material, belong to
the Church, and that although only the former is to wielded by her own hand, the two are to
be employed in her service. It is for the priest to use the sword of the word, but to strike with
the sword of steel belongs to the soldier, yet this must be by the authority and will of the priest
and by the direct command of the emperor, as I have said elsewhere. For the two swords are
Peter’s, to be drawn whenever necessary, the one by his own hand, the other by his authority.”
Tierney, The Crisis of Church and State, 1050-1300, pp. 93, 94

John of Salisbury (1120-1180)

“This sword (the material) then the prince receives from the hand of the church, for the
church does not stain a sword with blood. Yet even this is her sword, but she uses it by the
hand of the prince.”



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 352 of 385
Words of the Council of Trent regarding the power of the Pope:

“All temporal power is his; the dominion, jurisdiction, and government of the whole Earth is
his by divine right. All rulers of the Earth are his subjects and must submit to him.” John W.
Robbins, Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p. 131

Pius XI

“The doctrine of Rerum Novarum [which is nothing short of Marxism in religious garb] began
little by little to penetrate among those who, being outside Catholic unity, do not recognize
the authority of the Church; and these Catholic principles of sociology gradually became part
of the intellectual heritage of the whole human race. Thus too, we rejoice that the Catholic
truths proclaimed so vigorously by our illustrious Predecessor [Leo XIII], are advanced and
advocated not merely in non-Catholic books and journals, but frequently also in legislative
assemblies and in courts of justice.” Pius XI, Quadragesimo Anno (1931), 11.

Pius IX

“That principle which Leo XIII so clearly established must be laid down at the outset here,
namely, that there resides in Us [the Papacy] the right and duty to pronounce with supreme
authority upon social and economic matters.” Pope Pius XI, Encyclical Quadragesimo Anno,
May 15, 1931, paragraph 41

John XXIII

“Because all men are joined together by reason of their common origin, their redemption by
Christ and their supernatural destiny, and are called to form one Christian family, We
appealed in the Encyclical Mater et Magistra to economically developed nations to come to
the aid of those which were in the process of development.” John XXIII, Pacem in Terris,
(1963), 121

Vatican II (1963-1965)

“It is our clear duty, therefore, to strain every muscle in working for the time when all war
can be completely outlawed by international consent. This goal undoubtedly requires the
establishment of a universal public authority acknowledged as such by all and endowed
with the power to safeguard on the behalf of all, security, regard for justice, and respect for
rights.” Second Vatican II, Gaudium et Spes, (1965) 82

“Moreover, since in virtue of her mission and nature she is bound to no particular form of
human culture, nor to any political, economic or social system, the [Roman Catholic] Church
by her very universality can be a very close bond between diverse human communities and
nations, provided these trust her and truly acknowledge her right to true freedom in
fulfilling her mission.” Vatican Council II, Gaudium et Spes (1965), 42



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 353 of 385
Paul VI

“This international collaboration on a worldwide scale requires institutions that will
prepare, coordinate, and direct it until finally there is established an order of justice which is
universally recognized . . . Who does not see the necessity of thus establishing progressively
a world authority, capable of acting effectively in the juridical and political sectors?” Paul
VI, Populorum Progressio (1967), 78

Definition of Capitalism

“Capitalism, which is sometimes called the free enterprise system, the private property order
or laissez-faire, is the economic system in which individuals and groups are free to own
property of all sorts and to dispose of it as they see fit. It is the economic counterpart to the
political system of limited government in which the only functions of government are the
punishment of evildoers, that is, criminals, and the praise of the good.” John W. Robbins,
Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p. 49

John Paul II

“Private property, in fact, is under a ‘social mortgage,’ which means that it has an intrinsically
social function, based upon and justified precisely by the principle of the universal destination
of goods.” John Paul II, Sollicitudo Rei Socialis (1987), 42

“Christian tradition has never upheld this right [to private property] as absolute and
untouchable. On the contrary, it has always understood this right within the broader context
of the right common to all to use the goods of the whole creation; the right to private property
is subordinated to the right to common use, to the fact that goods are meant for everyone.”
John Paul II, Laborem Exercens (1981), 34, 35

Malachi Martin

“He [John Paul] was himself the head of the most extensive and deeply experienced of the
three global powers that would, within a short time, set about ending the nation system of
world politics that has defined human society for over a thousand years. It is not too much to
say, in fact, that the chosen purpose of John Paul’s pontificate—the engine that drives his
papal grand policy and that determines his day-to-day, year-by-year strategies—is to be
victor in that competition, now well under way.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood, p.
17

“In this timely and provocative new book, best-selling author Malachi Martin reveals the
untold story behind the Vatican’s role in the collapse of the Iron Curtain, as well as Pope John
Paul II’s far-reaching assessment of the three-way contest now unfolding among the global
powers—the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev, the capitalist nations of the west, and the
pope’s own universal Roman Church—a winner-take-all race against time and each other to



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 354 of 385
establish, maintain, and control the first one-world government that has ever existed on
the face of the earth.” Dust cover on The Keys of this Blood by Malachi Martin

“Clearly, the new agenda—Heaven’s agenda; the Grand Design of God for the new world
order—had begun. And Pope John Paul would stride now in the arena of the millennium
endgame as something more than a geopolitical giant of his age. He was, and remains, the
serene and confident Servant of the Grand Design.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood,
p. 50

“There is one great similarity shared by all three of these globalist competitors. Each one has
in mind a particular grand design for one world governance . . . Their geopolitical
competition is about which of the three will form, dominate and run the world system that
will replace the decaying nation system.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood, p. 18

“No holds barred because, once the competition has been decided, the world and all that’s in
it--our way of life as individuals and as citizens of the nations; our families and our jobs;
our trade and commerce and money; our educational systems and our religions and our
cultures; even the badges of our national identity, which most of us have always taken for
granted--all will have been powerfully and radically altered forever. No one can be
exempted from its effects. No sector of our lives will remain untouched . . . Nobody who is
acquainted with the plans of these three rivals has any doubt but that only one of them can
win.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of This Blood, p. 16

“As to the time factor involved, those of us who are under seventy will see at least the basic
structures of the new world government installed. Those of us under forty will surely live
under its legislative, executive and judiciary authority and control.” Malachi Martin, The
Keys of this Blood, pp. 15-16.

Benedict XVI

“Man’s earthly activity, when inspired and sustained by charity, contributes to the building of
the universal city of God, which is the goal of the history of the human family. In an
increasingly globalized society, the common good and the effort to obtain it cannot fail to
assume the dimensions of the whole human family, that is to say, the community of peoples
and nations, in such a way as to shape the earthly city in unity and peace, rendering it to
some degree an anticipation and a prefiguration of the undivided city of God.” Caritas in
Veritate, section 7

" . . . There is urgent need of a true world political authority, as my predecessor Blessed John
XXIII indicated some years ago. Such an authority would need to be regulated by law, to
observe consistently the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity, to seek to establish the
common good, and to make a commitment to securing authentic integral human
development inspired by the values of charity in truth. Furthermore, such an authority would
need to be universally recognized and to be vested with the effective power to ensure



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 355 of 385
security for all, regard for justice, and respect for rights." Benedict XVI in his encyclical,
Caritas in Veritate

Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine

“The common good therefore involves all members of society, no one is exempt from
cooperating, according to each one’s possibilities, in attaining and developing it.”
Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine, section 167.

On the universal destination of goods, the Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine states:

“If it is true that everyone is born with the right to use the goods of the earth, it is likewise true
that, in order to ensure that this right is exercised in an equitable and orderly fashion,
regulated interventions are necessary, interventions that are the result of national and
international agreements, and a juridical order that adjudicates and specifies the exercise
of this right.” Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine, section 173

“Christian tradition has never recognized the right to private property as absolute and
untouchable: ‘On the contrary, it has always understood this right within the broader context
of the right common to all to use the goods of the whole of creation. The right to private
property is subordinated to the right to common use, to the fact that goods are meant for
everyone.” Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine, section 177

“The Church’s social teaching moreover calls for recognition of the social function of any form
of private ownership that clearly refers to its necessary relation to the common good . . . The
universal destination of goods entails obligations on how goods are to be used by their
legitimate owners . . . From this arises the duty on the part of owners not to let goods in their
possession go idle and to channel them to productive activity, even entrusting them to
others who are desirous and capable of putting them to use in production.” Compendium of
Catholic Social Doctrine, section 178

“New technological and scientific knowledge must be placed at the service of mankind’s
primary needs, gradually increasing humanity’s common patrimony. Putting the principle of
the universal destination of goods into full effect therefore requires action at the
international level and planned programs on the part of all countries.” Compendium of
Catholic Social Doctrine, section 179

“Insofar as it is part of the Church’s moral teaching, the Church’s social doctrine has the same
dignity and authority as her moral teaching. It is authentic Magisterium which obligates
the faithful to adhere to it.” Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine, section 80

Warning by Ayn Rand

‘The Catholic Church has never given up the hope to re-establish [she must have once had it
and lost it] the medieval union of church and state, with a global state and a global



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 356 of 385
theocracy as its ultimate goal.’ The Roman Church-State is a hybrid—a monster of
ecclesiastical and political power. Its political thought is totalitarian, and whenever it has
had the opportunity to apply its principles, the result has been bloody repression. If, during
the last 30 years, it has softened its assertions of full, supreme, and irresponsible power, and
has murdered fewer people than before, such changes in behavior are not due to a change in
its ideas, but to a change in its circumstances [the secular governments keep her at
arms’ length] . . . The Roman Church-State in the twentieth century, however, is an
institution recovering from a mortal wound. If and when it regains [so it must have lost it]
its full power and authority, it will impose a regime more sinister than any the planet has yet
seen [the deadly wound will be healed].” John W. Robbins, Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p.
195.

“I am convinced that Roman Babylon will again regain all of its previous power before the
last judgment overtakes it. I fear that most of the nations, intimidated by its power and
terrified by its brutality, will allow the yoke shaken off some two hundred years ago to be
lain upon them again.” Words of Ph. J. Spener in Symposium on Revelation, volume 2, p. 388

“What the Roman Catholic Church-State accomplished on a small scale during the Middle
Ages is what it desires to achieve on a global scale in the coming millennium.” John W.
Robbins, Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p. 187 (1999)

Incremental Steps: Slavery, Gay Marriage and the Sabbath

“The greatest and most favored nation upon the earth is the United States. A gracious
Providence has shielded this country, and poured upon her the choicest of Heaven's blessings.
Here the persecuted and oppressed have found refuge. Here the Christian faith in its purity
has been taught. This people have been the recipients of great light and unrivaled mercies.
But these gifts have been repaid by ingratitude and forgetfulness of God. The Infinite One
keeps a reckoning with the nations, and their guilt is proportioned to the light rejected. A
fearful record now stands in the register of heaven against our land; but the crime which shall
fill up the measure of her iniquity is that of making void the law of God.” ST, July 4, 1899

SDA’S will be Hated

“There are many in the church who at heart belong to the world, but God calls upon those
who claim to believe the advanced truth, to rise above the present attitude of the popular
churches of today. Where is the self-denial, where is the cross-bearing that Christ has said
should characterize his followers? The reason we have had so little influence upon
unbelieving relatives and associates is that we have manifested little decided difference in
our practices from those of the world. Parents need to awake, and purify their souls by
practicing the truth in their home life. When we reach the standard that the Lord would have
us reach, worldlings will regard Seventh-day Adventists as odd, singular, straight-laced
extremists. "We are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men." RH,
January 9, 1894


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 357 of 385
“Heretofore those who presented the truths of the third angel's message have often been
regarded as mere alarmists. Their predictions that religious intolerance would gain control
in the United States, that church and state would unite to persecute those who keep the
commandments of God, have been pronounced groundless and absurd. It has been
confidently declared that this land could never become other than what it has been--the
defender of religious freedom. But as the question of enforcing Sunday observance is widely
agitated, the event so long doubted and disbelieved is seen to be approaching, and the third
message will produce an effect which it could not have had before.” GC, p. 605, 606

“The whole world is to be stirred with enmity against Seventh-day Adventists, because they
will not yield homage to the papacy, by honoring Sunday, the institution of this antichristian
power. It is the purpose of Satan to cause them to be blotted from the earth, in order that his
supremacy of the world may not be disputed.” Maranatha, p. 217

Revelation 13:3

“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly wound was
healed. And all the world marveled and followed the beast.”

John 17:14

“I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them because they are not of the
world, just as I am not of the world.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 358 of 385
           “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation”
                                  by Pastor Stephen Bohr


          LESSON #19 – REFLECTIONS ON THE
                  POPE’S AGENDA
The Final Triumvirate

In 1990 Roman Catholic Jesuit priest, Malachi Martin, published the bestselling book: The
Keys Of This Blood: Pope John Paul II Versus Russia And The West For Control Of The New
World Order. Martin’s book describes the tooth and nail struggle for world dominion
between the papacy, communism (Secularism), and western capitalism. On page 18 Martin
described the aspirations of all three global competitors:

“There is one great similarity shared by all three of these globalist competitors. Each one has
in mind a particular grand design for one world governance . . . Their geopolitical
competition is about which of the three will form, dominate and run the world system that
will replace the decaying nation system.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood, p. 18

And then Martin ominously predicted:

“No holds barred because, once the competition has been decided, the world and all that’s in
it--our way of life as individuals and as citizens of the nations; our families and our jobs;
our trade and commerce and money; our educational systems and our religions and our
cultures; even the badges of our national identity, which most of us have always taken for
granted--all will have been powerfully and radically altered forever. No one can be
exempted from its effects. No sector of our lives will remain untouched . . . Nobody who is
acquainted with the plans of these three rivals has any doubt but that only one of them can
win.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of This Blood, p. 16

Over one hundred years earlier Ellen White, commenting on Revelation 16:13, 14, had
made a similar prediction:

“Papists [the beast from the sea: the Papacy], Protestants [the two-horned beast: The United
States], and worldlings [the secular non-religious] will alike accept the form of godliness


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 359 of 385
without the power, and they will see in this union [ecumenism] a grand movement for the
conversion of the world [evangelization] and the ushering in of the long-expected millennium
[the Omega Point of the Grand Design according to Roman Catholic eschatology].” GC, pp.
588, 589

Social Conservatism

For over forty years, Roman Catholics and conservative Protestants have worked together
on common social causes. This alliance that included organizations such as the Moral
Majority and the Christian Coalition condemned abortion, euthanasia, same sex marriage,
government prohibitions of religious displays on public property and the Supreme Court
banning of prayer in public schools. This common struggle for ‘traditional morality’
brought conservative Protestants and Catholics ever closer together in a common cause.
The love affair was exhibited recently when several influential Protestant leaders were
invited by Pope Francis to visit the Vatican, among which were Kenneth Copland, Tony
Palmer, James Robison, Rick Warren and Joel Osteen. The Pope, who is considered by many
to be the foremost moral voice in the world, wowed these Protestant leaders to such an
extent that Rick Warren later exclaimed, ‘we are on the same team’.

With conservative Protestantism continually gravitating toward the papacy, the Vatican
needed to focus on the third group in the triumvirate—the secular worldlings.

During the decades that Catholics and conservative Protestants were struggling for
‘traditional morality’, their cause resonated strongly with social conservatives but not
with mainline liberal Protestant churches, the scientific community, liberal politicians, the
liberal media and the secular minded populace.

But in just the last ten years, American society has changed drastically. The social issues
that once galvanized conservative Protestants and Catholics are no longer in the forefront.
Just consider how gay marriage has triumphed in the United States with just a whimper
from social conservatives. Even Pope Francis I, has had little to say about gay marriage,
abortion, and other social issues choosing to say rather, ‘Who am I to judge?’ In his recent
visit to the White House, the United States Congress and the United Nations the Pope was
virtually silent on the traditional social issues. Why? There is a carefully laid out Jesuit style
strategy behind the change of papal talking points.

Having conservative Protestants increasingly in his camp and with traditional moral issues
on the backburner, Francis had to find themes that could win over the worldlings (the
secular minded) while not alienating the Protestants who sympathized with him. He
needed to spearhead causes that would resonate with those of a secular mentality—with
naturalist scientists, world politicians, and especially with the United Nations. After all,
Ellen White did predict that worldlings would be the third link in the final union against the
government of heaven. Jesuit Pope Francis I found three central themes that could
captivate those of a secular mentality without alienating conservative Protestants: Climate


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 360 of 385
change, family values and world poverty that has led, among other things, to massive
emigration and immigration. No one can fault the Pope for stressing the importance of
these three talking points. However, what is deeply troubling is the Pope’s motivation for
bringing them to the fore at this time.

Climate Change

Let’s take up first the Pope’s climate change campaign. In his recent encyclical Laudato Si’
Pope Francis has claimed that global climate change—formerly called ‘global warming’—is
due to human abuse of the environment, particularly the market driven and consumer
minded capitalist countries. He has claimed that if this problem is not urgently addressed, it
could eventually lead to the extinction of the human race. Therefore, he has called upon
world leaders to make climate change a top priority by signing and enforcing international
environmental protection treaties with penalties for those who do not comply.

This environmental message has hit a chord with powerful politicians. Governor Jerry
Brown of California, who was trained in Jesuit schools and presides over the sixth largest
economy on the planet was recently invited to the Vatican to participate in a summit on
climate change and he couldn’t help but offer accolades to Francis for his moral leadership
on this issue. And then there is Mayor Bill De Blasio of New York City, the financial capital
of the world. At the same meeting, he couldn’t help but gush about Francis as the ‘strongest
moral voice in the world [who] is calling political leaders to action’. Even many influential
Protestant leaders have described Pope Francis with the same glowing terms. Times were
when Protestants in the United States believed that the Bible was the greatest moral
authority in the world, but times have changed!

It is interesting to note the words that Pope Francis I used in his recent encyclical on
climate change, terminology that has been used by all popes in the last six decades and goes
all the way back to the writings of St. Thomas Aquinas. Francis claimed that:

“International [climate] negotiations cannot make significant progress due to positions taken
by countries which place their national interests above the global common good”
(Encyclical Letter Laudato Si’ of the Holy Father Francis on the Care of our Common Home,
paragraph # 169)

Did you notice the expressions, ‘national interests’ and ‘global common good’?

Ban Ki-Moon, the Secretary General of the United Nations echoed the Pope’s very words in
a recent news report. The report explained that Ban Ki-Moon called on governments to
‘place the global common good above national interests and to adopt an ambitious,
universal climate agreement’ at the United Nations climate summit in Paris this December.

And no less a heavyweight than Barack Obama, president of the world’s premier
superpower, echoed the Pope’s words as well:



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 361 of 385
“I welcome His Holiness Pope Francis's encyclical, and deeply admire the Pope's decision to
make the case—clearly, powerfully, and with the full moral authority of his position—for
action on global climate change . . . We must also protect the world's poor, who have done
the least to contribute to this looming crisis and stand to lose the most if we fail to avert it.

“I look forward to discussing these issues with Pope Francis when he visits the White
House in September. And as we prepare for global climate negotiations in Paris this
December, it is my hope that all world leaders—and all God's children—will reflect on
Pope Francis's call to come together to care for our common home.”

It is significant that President Obama linked the issue of global climate change with the
plight of the poor. As we shall soon see, in this he reflects the very strategy of the Jesuit
Pope.

Of course, one of the Pope’s provisions of the ‘save the planet’ crusade is making Sunday a
day for the environment to rest, for families to strengthen their ties by attending Mass,
and to give the poor a break from what he perceives as the endless and dehumanizing
cycle of capitalist life. The not-too-subtle insertion of Sunday at the end of the encyclical
appears innocuous at first sight but as Adventists we know what the papacy’s ultimate
purpose is in bringing global climate change to the forefront. Regarding Sunday, the
encyclical states:

“On Sunday, our participation in the Eucharist has special importance. Sunday, like the
Jewish Sabbath, is meant to be a day that heals our relationships with God, with ourselves,
with others and with the world . . . Rest opens our eyes to the larger picture and gives us
renewed sensitivity to the rights of others. And so the day of rest, centered on the Eucharist,
sheds it light on the whole week, and motivates us to greater concern for nature and the
poor.” (Laudato Si’ 237)

Pontifical Academy of Sciences

On April 15, 2015, some two months before the Pope released his encyclical, the Pontifical
Academy of Sciences and the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences had released a statement
titled:

“Climate Change and the Common Good: A Statement of the Problem and the Demand for
Transformation Solutions”.

This eye-opening document presents a doomsday scenario that is intended to scare the
planet into doing something about climate change or run the risk of ceasing to exist! Among
other things, the Declaration stated:

“Climate change is a global problem whose solution will depend on our stepping beyond
national affiliations and coming together for the common good.”




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 362 of 385
It further stated:

“As early as 2100, there will be a non-negligible probability of irreversible and catastrophic
climate impacts that may last over thousands of years, raising the existential question of
whether civilization as we know it can be extended beyond this century.”

The document states that the increase in temperature has not been seen in ‘tens of
millions of years,’ one clear indication among many that the papacy has fully embraced
the evolutionary theory of origins.

The Pope’s encyclical (released June 18, 2015), published about two months after the
Declaration, suggested that the elimination of carbon gases, carpooling, planting trees,
turning off unnecessary lights, restricting the use of air conditioning, recycling and
boycotting certain products as well as giving the planet a Sunday rest will help solve the
problem. The Pope also called for international treaties that would pressure the affluent
countries to help poorer ones adapt, including a move to help them switch from fossil fuels
to clean energies such as solar power. Thus he stated in Laudato Si’ 53 that the
“establishment of a legal framework which can set clear boundaries and ensure the
protection of ecosystems has become indispensable.”

Like President Obama, the Pope links the issue of global climate change with the need for
the rich nations to help poor ones. In the Pope’s words:

“The people who have done the least to cause this [climate change] suffer the most. That
should, if nothing else, give weight to the argument that the [Northern Hemisphere] must
shift serious resources to the poor world.”

The Pope Visits the White House

On September 23, 2015, in the midst of a pomp, circumstance and fanfare such as had
never been seen before in the welcome of any head of state, with flags of the United States
and the Holy See waving side by side in the wind, President Obama referred to the Pope as
‘the holy father’ and warmly welcomed him to the White House.

After the welcoming ceremony, the Pope had a private audience with President Obama in
the White House. The talking points were not a secret. President Obama had already
notified the press that two of the main topics to be discussed would be global climate
change and world poverty, themes that he passionately shares with the Pope. There is no
indication that the Pope addressed the issues of abortion or gay marriage with president
Obama for reasons that are quite obvious. The Pope did not want to wear out his welcome
from the start by addressing topics on which he and President Obama might disagree!

Although the Pope was virtually mum on the social issues that have galvanized the papacy
with conservative Protestants, there is persuasive evidence that he still believes in these




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 363 of 385
issues but did not want to alienate the secular minded. In good Jesuit fashion he straddled
the fence on the controversial issues.

On the one hand the Pope met with and warmly received a long time gay friend and his
partner. On the other hand, after the Pope left the United States it was discovered that he
had also met secretly at the Vatican Embassy in Washington D. C., with Kim Davis, the
Pentecostal county clerk from Kentucky who refused to perform a gay marriage and was
jailed for five days. Miss Davis described the encounter:

“I put my hand out and he reached and he grabbed it, and I hugged him and he hugged me . . .
I had tears coming out of my eyes, I’m just a nobody, so it was really humbling to think he
would want to meet or know me.”

According to Miss Davis’ attorney, Pope Francis gave her rosaries and told her to ‘stay
strong.’ The Pope also met with the Little Sisters of the Poor who have sued president
Obama over the federal government’s contraception mandate in the Affordable Care Act.

Conservative syndicated columnist George Will was correct when he explained the reason
for the change in the papacy’s public talking points:

“As the world spurns his church’s teachings about abortion, contraception, divorce, same-sex
marriage and other matters, Francis jauntily makes his church congruent with the secular
religion of ‘sustainability.’

Joint Session of Congress

On September 24, for the first time in the history of the United States, a Roman Catholic
Pope addressed a joint session of Congress, whose members are sworn to uphold the
Constitution and Bill of Rights. What did the Pope say to Congress? The answer was there
for all to see. As expected, he lectured politicians about their duty to serve for ‘the common
good’, the dangers and woes of unrestrained capitalism, the need to address climate change
and to redistribute the world’s goods among all of God’s creatures for the ‘common good’.

By the way, how was this address to Congress not an infringement of the separation of
church and state? On what constitutional basis can senators and congressmen be
encouraged by the Pope to implement the moral teaching of the Roman Catholic papacy?
And if the United States follows the counsel of the Pope and signs an international climate
agreement in Paris, how would this not be an establishment of the religious and moral
teaching of the Roman Catholic papacy, particularly considering that the Pope’s encyclical
is loaded with religious language?

Address to the United Nations

On September 24, 2015 the Pope presented an address to the United Nations General
Assembly where the greatest number of political leaders in the history of the world were



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 364 of 385
present. Among other things, the speech encouraged world leaders to establish legislation
to address the problem of global climate change and world poverty. In fact, in his encyclical
the Pope had already suggested that in order for these problems to be solved, ‘models of
production and consumption’ and ‘established structures of power that today govern
societies’ needed to change profoundly! (Laudato Si’ 5) Once again, Roman Catholic
conservative flagship subjects such as gay marriage and abortion were summarily passed
over for obvious reasons—no need to alienate those of a secular mentality before they are
fully on board!

The Pope in Philadelphia

On September 25-27 the Pope was in Philadelphia, the cradle of the founding documents of
the United States—the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
The choice of location was not coincidental. In the very place where these founding
documents were ratified, stood a man whose kingdom stands in direct and radical conflict
with ‘every principle of our Constitution’!

The papacy’s sordid history clearly reveals that its foundation and source of power lies on
the union of church and state. It matters not that the papacy is losing droves of members to
the Protestant churches in Latin America or that only a sliver of the population in Western
Europe regularly attend church. The power of the papacy resides not so much in the
number of its members but rather in the maneuvering of its hierarchy in every country of
the globe. What many fail to understand is that the word ‘papacy’ does not refer to the
Roman Catholic Church as a religious entity. It is rather a code word for a system that
unites church and state and whose leader, in union with the Council of Bishops, claims to
have the divine right to global jurisdiction, in both religious and secular matters. Little does
the world realize what the ultimate aspirations of the papacy really are—global dominion
with an iron fist!

Ellen White warned long ago:

“By the decree of enforcing the institution of the Papacy in violation of the law of God, our
nation will disconnect herself fully from righteousness . . . [when] our country shall repudiate
every principle of its Constitution as a Protestant and Republican government, and shall
make provision for the propagation of papal falsehoods and delusions, then we may know
that the time has come for the marvelous working of Satan, and that the end is near.” Ellen G.
White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, p. 451

It is estimated that some one million people attended an outdoor mass in Philadelphia on
Sunday, September 27. As I watched the scene it reminded me of Daniel 3 where all of the
great world leaders, in the midst of much fanfare and music, bowed before the image that
king Nebuchadnezzar had set up. Revelation 13:3 describes the parallel scene at the end of
time when ‘all the world marveled and followed the beast’ and worshiped his image
(Revelation 13:3)


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 365 of 385
Paris Climate Change Summit

The next step in the climate change and poverty strategy of the papacy will be when the
Pope attends a meeting of world leaders in Paris in December to discuss global climate
change and to make specific recommendations to address the problem. The ‘save the
planet’ crusade will provide a perfect forum at that time to encourage the world to set aside
Sunday as a means of giving the environment and the oppressed poor a rest and to allow
families time to gather together for worship! Will it happen in Paris? No one knows but
sooner or later it will happen!

Redistributing the Wealth

This leads us to look more closely at the Pope’s second talking point that has strongly
resonated with world leaders. The Pope has continually lectured the capitalist nations of
the northern hemisphere to redistribute the wealth of the world evenly in order to abolish
poverty for ‘the common good’. This ideal is socialism pure and simple, but not a socialism
of the atheistic type but rather a religio-political socialism under the ‘moral’ leadership of
the papacy. It is actually a not-too-subtle war on capitalism and the middle class, a call for
opulent nations to spread the wealth. The end result, as the Cuban and Venezuelan
experiment has shown, will not be that all nations will have equal riches but rather that all
will share the same poverty with a small rich elite at the top! This papal strategy of
‘spreading the wealth’, that began slowly in modern times with Pope Leo XIII’s encyclical,
Rerum Novarum (a Christianized version of Marxism), has accelerated to blinding speed in
our time, especially among liberal politicians.

The ideal of a classless society where all share equally in the world’s goods is a great idea,
but in a selfish world it is an unreachable goal. In fact, Jesus, who said that ‘the poor you
will always have with you’, openly contradicted this socialistic ideal. And Ellen White
categorically affirms that poverty tests the faith of the poor and the stewardship of the rich:

“It was not the purpose of God that poverty should ever leave the world. The ranks of society
were never to be equalized; for the diversity of conditions that characterizes our race is one
of the means by which God has designed to prove and develop character. Many have urged
with great enthusiasm that all men should have an equal share in the temporal blessings of
God; but this was not the purpose of the Creator . . . It would be the greatest misfortune
that has ever befallen mankind if all were to be placed upon an equality in worldly
possessions.” Counsels on Health, p. 230

The Reason for Ecological Care

The Pope’s view on these matters leads us to ask: Is the Pope on target when he encourages
humans to care for the environment, to help the poor and to focus on the family unit?
Doesn’t the Bible itself enjoin us to do such things? Of course it does! We can certainly
agree with the Pope concerning the importance of prioritizing these matters.


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 366 of 385
But the question that should engage us is this: Why should these issues be a primary
concern to all of us? Psalm 24:1, 2 provides the answer:

“The earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein, for He
has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the waters.”

The Bible explains that we are to care for the earth and those who dwell therein because
they are not ours. The apostle Paul expressed the principle well when he reminded us that
we are not our own (1 Corinthians 6:19). Human abuse of the environment and the poor
who dwell therein is due to the fact that humanity has forgotten that the earth and its
inhabitants belong to God, not to us. And what has caused this tragic amnesia? The answer
is that humanity has cast aside God’s weekly reminder of creation—the seventh day
Sabbath. The fourth commandment, spoken by God in the midst of thunder and lightning
on Mt. Sinai and written with God’s own finger states:

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall do no work: you, nor
your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle,
nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the LORD made the heavens and the
earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore, the LORD
blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.” Exodus 20:8-11

In short, God created our earthly environment, its inhabitants (human and animal) and
the family unit in six literal days and then left us a perpetual sign of His creative power by
resting on the seventh day. Exodus 20:11, which echoes Genesis 2:2, 3, does not instruct us
to rest one day in seven or every seventh day. The word ‘seventh’ in Hebrew is preceded
by the definite article. It is THE seventh day that commemorates creation, not the first day
or just any day!

Why should we care for our earthly home? Because God made it in six days and it is His!
Why should the sanctity of marriage and the family be safeguarded? Because God created
them on the sixth day! Why should we care for the less fortunate by taking them in and
sharing ‘our’ goods with them? Because we all descend from the original pair and all have
one blood (Acts 17:26). We are all members of the same family by creation and therefore
we must care for one another.

The Days of Creation

And here is another important question: What was the length of each day of creation? The
book of Genesis indisputably affirms that each day consisted of 24 hours, just as we
experience them today, and there is no evidence whatsoever that the weekly cycle has ever
been broken. The Biblical testimony clearly reveals that our earthly home and its
inhabitants did not come into existence over millions/billions of years for we are told that
God ‘spoke and it was done, He commanded and it stood fast’ (Psalm 33:9) and that every



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 367 of 385
day had ‘an evening and a morning’ which would be absurd if the days lasted long periods
of time.

After working six literal days, God looked upon what He had made and it was very good
(Genesis 1:31). God then rested on the literal seventh day and made it holy, setting it apart
as a perpetual memorial of creation. In this way, the seventh day Sabbath stands or falls on
the literalness of the days of creation. If the days of creation were vast periods of time, the
Sabbath institution evaporates in a mist.

The fourth commandment makes absolutely no sense if the days of creation lasted millions
or billions of years. How could God ask man to work six days and rest on the seventh as He
did at creation if the days were not literal just as we know them today? Clearly, the seventh
day Sabbath is rooted in a literal creation and is part of God’s original plan for the human
race before sin and death. It was neither Jewish nor temporary!

Bottom line:

   1.   God created the environment and we should care for it.
   2.   God created the family unit of husband, wife and children and we should care for it.
   3.   God created all human beings—we are all of one blood—and we should care for
        one another.
   4.   The sign that reminds us of all this is the seventh day Sabbath.

Sin and Redemption

But the seventh day Sabbath has another dimension. The book of Genesis describes a
literal fall of literal Adam and literal Eve in a literal and perfect Garden of Eden. The fall
infected the entire human race and made it necessary for Jesus, the Creator, to become
flesh in order to restore the perfect creation that had been lost. Thus a literal creation, a
literal fall and a literal redemption are indissolubly linked.

It was on the evening portion of Friday (our Thursday evening) the sixth day that Jesus,
when He was about to finish His work of redemption, prayed to His father “I have finished
the work that you gave me to do” (John 17:4). Later, in the afternoon of the same day, Jesus
cried out on the cross ‘it is finished’. Thus the provision for redemption was finished on the
sixth day just as He finished his creative work on the sixth day.

After crying out, ‘it is finished,’ Jesus was removed from the cross, placed in Joseph’s tomb
and then His body rested on the Sabbath as a sign of the completion of His works of
redemption (Acts 2:25-27). And, while Jesus rested in the tomb on the Sabbath (Acts 2:25-
27), His followers outside the tomb ‘rested the Sabbath day according to the
commandment’ (Luke 24:56). Thus the seventh day Sabbath, that was originally a sign of
creation, now took on an added dimension and became a sign of redemption. According
to the Apostle Paul, redemption is a new creation (2 Corinthians 5:17).



        “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 368 of 385
Caring for the Needy

Pope Francis has underlined that Sunday, the first day of the week, should be the day on
which to alleviate the suffering of the less fortunate. In contrast, Jesus chose the seventh
day Sabbath to especially alleviate the suffering of the less fortunate—the weak, the poor,
the maimed, the demon-possessed and the hungry. Why did Jesus choose the seventh-day
Sabbath as the special day to help the needy? Was He breaking the Sabbath? No. The fact is
that Jesus recognized that all creatures were made in His image and therefore the strong
should help the weak. Thus the Sabbath was a sign of solidarity between the ‘haves’ and the
‘have nots’.

Helping the less fortunate on the seventh-day Sabbath was not an innovation by Jesus.
Already in the Old Testament God had indicated that the Sabbath was a day to give rest to
servants, strangers and even the beasts of burden! (Exodus 20:9, 10; Exodus 23:12) The
prophet Isaiah described the Sabbath as a day to ‘loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo
the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free’, and to ‘break every yoke’. It was a day to
share ‘bread with the hungry’, bring into our house ‘the poor and the outcast,’ to cover the
naked, and to not hide ourselves from our own flesh (Isaiah 58:6, 7). Thus what Jesus did
on the seventh-day Sabbath was perfectly in line with the Old Testament!

The Bible View of the End

The Bible does not present an evolutionary scenario of the beginning or of the end. It does
not teach that through a process of macroevolution the world will get better and better and
finally reach the ‘Omega Point’ of the ‘Grand Design’. Neither does it teach that the world
will come to an end because of climate change that is caused by a systemic abuse of the
ecosystem.

The Bible scenario of end time events on this planet is pessimistic rather than optimistic. At
the very end of human history, just before the coming of Jesus, the planet will wax old and
unravel at the seams (Isaiah 24:1-6). The world will be as it was in the days of Noah where
‘every intent of the heart of man was only evil continually’. (Genesis 6:5) It will be like
Sodom where the men of the city wished to have homosexual relations with the angels
(Genesis 19:5; Luke 17:28-30). Men’s hearts will fail them for fear as they see the calamities
that are falling upon the earth (Luke 21:26). There will be wars and rumors of wars as
nation rises against nation and kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines,
pestilences, earthquakes and tumults (Matthew 24:6-8; Luke 21:9). Humans with the form
of godliness will be lovers of themselves that will lead to a large catalog of sins (2 Timothy
3:1-5). The world will reach the degenerate condition that is described in Romans 1:18-32.
All these things will occur, not because of climate change but because of the iniquity of
humanity (Matthew 24:6-8; Isaiah 24:5).

We have been told that ‘Satan works through the elements’ and can cause ‘fierce tornadoes
and terrific hailstorms, tempests, floods, cyclones, tidal waves, and earthquakes’ and that


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 369 of 385
these ‘visitations are to become more and more frequent and disastrous’ (GC 589, 590).
The family unit will disintegrate and parents will hate children and children parents (Luke
21:16). The poor will be oppressed by the capitalist overlords and will cry out to God for
justice (James 5:1-8; Revelation 18:6-24). Satan’s agenda in these ever increasing
calamities will be to finally blame the global meltdown on God’s faithful people (Matthew
24:9). In fact, Ellen White explains that the final step in the process of the devil’s end game
will be to ‘persuade men that those who serve God are causing these evils’ GC pp. 589, 590.

As things get progressively worse and a time of trouble such as never has been seen ensues
(Matthew 24:21, 22), the rebellious and disobedient world will be led by their religious and
political leaders to believe that by enforcing Sunday observance and by rooting out those
who keep the Sabbath, prosperity will return to the earth and there will be an era of peace
and harmony. But instead, the Sunday law will bring about a global apostasy that will
finally bring ruin upon creation rather than healing (Isaiah 24:6). The blame that Ahab cast
upon Elijah for the ecological upheaval in Israel is a microcosm of what will occur on a
global scale at the end. With regards to the United States, Ellen White has warned:

“The people of the United States have been a favored people; but when they restrict religious
liberty, surrender Protestantism, and give countenance to popery, the measure of their
guilt will be full, and "national apostasy" will be registered in the books of heaven. The result
of this apostasy will be national ruin.” RH, May 2, 1893

The papacy’s call for the nations to address climate change, the disintegration of the family
and world poverty (including immigration) is merely dealing with a symptom. Ellen White
explained that the primary cause of global climate change and natural disasters is not
things such as fossil fuels and cutting down forests but rather the wickedness of man in
trampling upon God’s Law:

“The restraining Spirit of God is even now being withdrawn from the world. Hurricanes,
storms, tempests, fire and flood, disasters by sea and land, follow each other in quick
succession. Science seeks to explain all these. The signs thickening around us, telling of the
near approach of the Son of God, are attributed to any other than the true cause. Men
cannot discern the sentinel angels restraining the four that they shall not blow until the
servants of God are sealed; but when God shall bid His angels loose the winds, there will be
such a scene of strife as no pen can picture.” 6T, p. 408

But the Bible story of the end does not ultimately conclude on a pessimistic note. It
teaches that history, as we presently know it, will end with the literal, glorious, personal,
rapid, second coming of Jesus (Titus 2:11-14; Matthew 24:29, 30) to take His faithful
children to heaven for a thousand years (John 14:1-3) during which the earth will return to
the condition that it was in before creation week—without form and void and in darkness
(Jeremiah 4:23-27).




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 370 of 385
After the millennium God will then recreate the earth in six literal days and rest the
seventh literal day as He did at the beginning and then God’s people will live securely and
peacefully in a perfect sinless world forever where Jesus will reign forever and ever. As a
weekly commemoration of God’s creative power, His people will come to God’s throne on
the weekly seventh day Sabbath to worship Him:

"For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make shall remain before Me," says
the LORD, "so shall your descendants and your name remain. And it shall come to pass that
from one New Moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to
worship before Me," says the LORD.” (Isaiah 66:22, 23)

The Papacy’s View of Beginnings

The papacy’s view of beginnings is radically different. According to recent popes (primarily
after Pope Pius XII, 1939-1958), life on earth came into existence by a Big Bang and then
evolved over millions of years. According to this view, at some point in the evolutionary
process God gave a well-developed simian a human soul and this marked the beginning of
the evolutionary development of Homo sapiens. Roman Catholic Popes and theologians,
primarily after the time of Jesuit Paleontologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, teach that the
story of creation cannot be taken literally; it is a symbolic myth. Thus the Pope in his
encyclical refers to the language in the creation story as ‘symbolic narrative’. In the
papacy’s view, God used evolution as the mechanism to bring into existence what we see
in the world today. Pope John Paul II in a speech to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences in
1996 had already referred to evolution as ‘more than a theory’:

“Today, almost half a century after the publication of the encyclical (Pope Pius XII, Humane
Generis, 1950), new knowledge has led to the recognition of the theory of evolution as more
than a hypothesis. It is indeed remarkable that this theory has been progressively accepted
by researchers, following a series of discoveries in various fields of knowledge. The
convergence, neither sought nor fabricated, of the results of work that was conducted
independently is in itself a significant argument in favor of the theory.”

In typical Jesuit fashion, Pope Francis I has also attempted to reconcile the creation story
with the evolutionary theory by synthesizing them. In this way he has attempted to please,
both theologians and naturalist scientists, the secular and the religious. In his own words:

“The Big Bang, which today we hold to be the origin of the world, does not contradict the
intervention of the divine creator but, rather, requires it . . . Evolution in nature is not
inconsistent with the notion of creation, because evolution requires the creation of beings
that evolve. When we read about Creation in Genesis, we run the risk of imagining God was a
magician, with a magic wand able to do everything. But that is not so . . . He created human
beings and let them develop according to the internal laws that he gave to each one so they
would reach their fulfillment . . . “




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 371 of 385
The Pope’s remark that we should not conceive of God as ‘a magician, with a magic want
able to do everything’ is interesting, especially in light of the fact that the papacy teaches
that the priest at each Mass is able to transubstantiate the bread and wine into the real
body and blood of Jesus instantaneously!! In Roman Catholic theology it does not take
millions or billions of years for this to happen, it occurs the instant the priest speaks the
words ‘hoc est corpus meum’. In fact, St. Bernardine of Sienna affirmed that in the
transubstantiation of the bread the priest can be regarded ‘the creator of his Creator
because the act ‘requires as much power as the creation of the world’’ St. Alphonsus de
Liguori, Dignity and Duties of the Priest or Selva, pp. 33-34.

What the Pope fails to describe in his statements is the cruel and disgusting mechanism of
evolution. Scientist Frank L. Marsh explained it this way:
“Evolution presents a bloody, ruthless struggle for existence from the very beginning, where
there is much waste of living substance and many false starts and blind alleys.” Here I
Stand p. 277

The process of evolution functions on the basis of natural selection, the survival of the
fittest. The strong survive and the weak pass away until all the errors of the evolutionary
process are ironed out. Does this sound like a wise Creator? Is this the God who cares for
the sparrow (Luke 12:6), dresses the lilies of the field in their beauty and has the hairs of
our heads numbered (Matthew 10:30)?

This method of trial and error with suffering and death is a direct attack against the
omnipotence of God and His wisdom. Are the power of God and His wisdom so limited
that He could not get things right the first time but rather had to use a method of false
starts to weed out the imperfections in the course of hundreds of millions or even billions
of years? Evolution also strikes directly against God’s love and goodness. How could a
God of love witness the cruel suffering of His creation over millions of years even before sin
entered the universe? What authority would God have to tell us to be kind to the lower life
forms and the less fortunate if He Himself showed such a crass disregard for them in the
supposed process of evolution?

The Bible describes a literal and unbroken chain of events. If one link is broken the entire
chain falls apart:

   1. Adam and Eve were literal persons whom God created perfect and placed in the
      literal Garden of Eden just like the Genesis says
   2. Adam and Eve were literally tempted by a literal serpent and had a literal fall into
      sin
   3. Once the virus of sin came in, it infected every literal descendant of Adam and Eve
   4. Death came in upon all men as a consequence of sin




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 372 of 385
   5. Because of sin and death, humanity needs a Redeemer who will make it possible to
      bring the world back to its original perfect condition where there is no sin and
      death.

Think about it: If there was death in the world long before sin, then the link between sin
and death and redemption is broken—death would not come as a result of sin. Thus the
link between creation and redemption is broken because the purpose of redemption in
the Bible is deliverance from death.

Roman Catholic theologian, Karl Schmits-Moorman, was brutally honest when he wrote
about the link between a literal fall into sin followed by death and making necessary
redemption from sin and death:

“The notion of the traditional view of redemption as reconciliation and ransom from the
consequences of Adam’s fall is nonsense for anyone who knows about the evolutionary
background to human existence in the modern world.” Creation, Catastrophe and
Redemption, p. 112

Further, he states that because in his view the story of Genesis is not literal, salvation
“cannot mean returning to an original state, but must be conceived as perfecting through
the process of evolution.”

The question that begs to be asked is this: In this scenario, how much longer must creation
wait before the process of evolution reaches its ‘omega point’, to use the words of Chardin?
Will it take millions of years? Billions? How many millions/billions of years must we wait
for lambs and wild beasts to live together in harmony and for wars to cease? (Isaiah 11:6;
65:25). How much longer must creation cry out in pain for its deliverance? (Romans 8:22,
23) The evolutionary scenario certainly doesn’t offer us much hope for an imminent
coming of Jesus to quickly make all things new! Will change take place over vast periods of
time or will it be ‘in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye?’ (1 Corinthians 15:52) Clearly,
our view of how things began will certainly impact our view of how things will end.

Evolution and the Sabbath

It has become common for Roman Catholic theologians (and some Evangelical and
Adventist ones as well!!) to refer to the stories of Genesis 1-11 as non-historical legends.
What would happen with the Sabbath if the story of creation did not literally take place just
as Genesis describes it? The answer is inescapable. If the days of creation were not literal
twenty-four hour days then the seventh was not either, and the Sabbath as a perpetual
weekly memorial of a loving, wise and omnipotent creator, evaporates!

Actually Francis’ concept of beginnings is incongruous with his expressed desire to address
climate change, family values and the plight of the poor. Why should we respect creation if
it has evolved over millions of years and is still in the process of evolving? If, by a process of
natural selection or the survival of the fittest, the strong survive and the weak disappear,


       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 373 of 385
why should we help the underdog? Why should the ‘haves’ be concerned about those who
‘have not?’ Is it not the mechanism of evolution that the strong thrive and the weak
disappear? Only when we realize that all persons are God’s creatures, created originally
and literally in the image of God, will we feel the desire to care for them and provide for
their needs. Further, if the creation story did not literally take place, how can we argue that
families should have a father and a mother rather than two fathers or two mothers?

The papacy claims that climate change is caused by human activity and must be resolved by
mere human methods such as conservation, recycling, eliminating fossil fuels and
international laws and treaties adopted in response to the moral voice of the Roman
Catholic papacy. We know that one of those international laws will eventually be
mandatory Sunday rest. This law will presumably give a rest to the environment, provide
family time for worship, help people connect with their spiritual roots and give the poor a
rest from the endless capitalist cycle of work. This, in turn, will supposedly bring in the long
expected millennium of peace and prosperity under the moral leadership of the papacy
guiding the civil powers of the world. Thus, in this misguided scenario, the planet will have
reached the ending point of the ‘Grand Design’.

The Roman Catholic View of the End

Can we expect a rapid, supernatural end to human history with an evolutionary model?
Impossible! If the original creation was not supernatural, rapid, literal, and perfect could
we expect that when God creates a new heaven and a new earth it will be so? The papacy’s
view of the end is compromised by its view of the beginning. How many more millions of
years must we wait for the process of evolution to work out its quirks, wrinkles and flaws?

For Roman Catholic theologians and Popes, the Blessed Hope of the Church is not found in
the second coming of Jesus. The goal is for the papacy to take over the kingdoms of this
world by joining church and state in order to establish a theocratic kingdom where the
church will control and provide moral guidance to the state. I ask: How many times did you
hear John Paul II refer to the second coming as the Great Hope of the Church? And how
about Francis I? The Reformed scholar Harold Robbins explains the objectives of the
papacy:

“What the Roman Catholic Church-State accomplished on a small scale during the Middle
Ages is what it desires to achieve on a global scale in the coming millennium.” John W.
Robbins, Ecclesiastical Megalomania, p. 187 (1999)

There is nothing new under the sun! This theocratic experiment has been tried once before
during the 1260 years of papal dominion in Europe and failed miserably, bringing about
misery, disease, suffering, poverty, civil war, squalor, strife and martyrdom that eventually
culminated in the French Revolution. What makes us think that the papacy will do any
better on a global scale?




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 374 of 385
Since the times of St. Augustine, the Roman Catholic Church has taught that the stone that
hits the feet of the image in Daniel 2 does not represent the second coming of Jesus; it
rather represents the papacy taking over the reins of the secular powers of the world to
establish Christ’s universal kingdom of peace on earth. It is a sobering fact that on the
Mount of Temptation, Satan offered Jesus all the kingdoms of the world and he rejected
them but Satan offered the papacy those same kingdoms and the papacy accepted the offer.

What is the papacy’s ultimate goal in all of this discussion on climate change, family values
and helping the poor? We can tell by the catchwords and expressions the papacy has used
to address these issues. The key words and expressions that appear repeatedly are, ‘the
common good’ (individualism is an enemy to be dreaded), ‘solidarity’ (we are all in this
together so we must all unite in one ecumenical body: “We require a new and universal
solidarity.” Laudato Si’ 14), ‘subsidiarity’ (our personal interests are subsidiary to the
common good), and ‘the common destination of goods’ (property is not personal but
belongs to all of humanity according to need). Time and again, Popes, conciliar documents
and theologians have used these words and expressions. Let’s take a look at a few of them.
Pope Benedict XVI in his 2009 encyclical, Caritas in Veritate made a chilling suggestion:

“There is urgent need of a true world political authority, as my predecessor Blessed John
XXIII indicated some years ago. Such an authority would need to be regulated by law, to
observe consistently the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity, to seek to establish the
common good, and to make a commitment to securing authentic integral human
development inspired by the values of charity in truth. Furthermore, such an authority would
need to be universally recognized and to be vested with the effective power to ensure
security for all, regard for justice, and respect for rights."

Something similar is stated in The Compendium of Catholic Social Doctrine, section 173:

“If it is true that everyone is born with the right to use the goods of the earth, it is likewise true
that, in order to ensure that this right is exercised in an equitable and orderly fashion,
regulated interventions are necessary, interventions that are the result of national and
international agreements, and a juridical order that adjudicates and specifies the exercise
of this right.”

The question is: Which ‘world political authority’ was Pope Benedict referring to? Pope
Pius XI in his encyclical Quadragesimo Anno had already provided the answer:

“That principle which Leo XIII so clearly established must be laid down at the outset here,
namely, that there resides in Us [in the Papacy] the right and duty to pronounce with
supreme authority upon social and economic matters.” Pope Pius XI, Encyclical
Quadragesimo Anno, May 15, 1931, paragraph 41




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 375 of 385
The papacy’s end time scenario is radically different than the Biblical one. As we have
previously seen, the Bible portrays a pessimistic end time scenario. The earth will grow old
(Isaiah 24:4, 5), and there will be earthquakes, famines, pestilence, social unrest and wars
that will lead to a tribulation such as there has never been (Matthew 24:6-8). The
abomination of desolation—a universal Sunday law—will be set up and God’s people will
be hated and persecuted by all nations. Toward the end of the Great Tribulation the seven
last plagues will decimate the earth and second coming of Jesus will reduce the planet to
the way it was before creation week—dark, empty, disorderly and uninhabitable (Matthew
24:29, 30; John 14:1-3; Titus 2:13; 2 Peter 3). The angels will then gather up God’s elect and
take them to heaven (Matthew 24:29, 30; John 14:1-3) for a thousand years after which He
will create a New Heavens and a New Earth.

In contrast, the papacy sees a potentially brilliant future for the planet under its ‘moral’
leadership. In its view, human ingenuity and international laws will be able to solve the
planet’s problems and the kingdom of God will be established on earth with the papacy
serving as the ‘moral voice’ for the nations of the world. Thus Pope Francis, in his speech to
the United Nations stated:

“Among other things, human genius, well applied, will surely help to meet the grave
challenges of ecological deterioration and of exclusion [of the poor].”

The papacy believes that this theocracy will bring about the long awaited millennium of
peace and prosperity for all. You see, for the papacy, this world is our permanent home, an
idea that contradicts the Bible. According to Scripture we are strangers and pilgrims on this
earth. The heavenly city is our home (Hebrews 11:13-16). Our citizenship is in heaven from
where we expect Jesus at His second coming (Philippians 3:20). Is it any coincidence that
the wicked in Revelation are portrayed as the ‘earth dwellers’, which are glued to this
planet?

The Pope has linked these three causes to captivate the world: Climate change, poverty and
family. And he has linked all three with Sunday sacredness. According to the Pope,
Capitalism has enslaved the poor and deprived them of necessary rest and therefore
international governments should draw up laws that would pressure private enterprise to
give them a Sunday rest. This has already been done in the Pope’s native Argentina and
there is great pressure to do the same in the European Union.

The Pope has further argued that Capitalist countries have spoiled the environment and
the poor countries have suffered as a result and therefore the rich nations should
financially compensate the poor ones. And the Pope has indicated that Sunday is a
magnificent way to let the environment rest by stopping the exploitation of nature for
one day of the seven. He has further stated that capitalism treats human beings like
machines and deprives them of the opportunity to gather with their families for Sunday
Mass and spiritual enrichment.



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 376 of 385
As a biblical foundation for his ‘save the planet crusade’, the Pope appeals in his encyclical
to the pattern of the seven-day weekly cycle, the seven-year Sabbatical year and the forty-
nine year of the Jubilee. This is all fine and dandy except for the fact that in all these cycles
it was THE SEVENTH in the sequence, not the first when the people were to rest, the debts
of the poor were to be forgiven, the captives were to be released and the fields left fallow to
rest. The Bible clearly indicates that the seventh-day Sabbath is the day to let the
environment rest, the day for work to cease so that man can spend time with God and
family and a day to give the poor a break from the rat race of work. The Pope’s idea is great
but he has the wrong day!

On August 19, 2015 at his weekly general audience Pope Francis spoke about the need for
days of rest, especially Sunday celebrations of Mass and time with the family, because they
are important reminders that every human being is made in the image and likeness of God
and is not a ‘slave to work.’ Even a superficial reader of the Genesis story will discern a
serious disconnect between the Pope’s counsel and the creation story. How can the Pope
appeal for Sunday rest based on the creation story when the story clearly states that the
seventh day Sabbath is the commemorative day of rest? On what authority could Pope
John Paul II boldly state in paragraph 14 of his Pastoral Letter Dies Domini that Sunday
should be kept because God blessed it and made it holy? In his own words:

“Sunday is the day of rest because it is the day ‘blessed’ by God and ‘made holy’ by him, set
apart from the other days to be, among all of them, ‘the Lord’s Day.”

Where on earth do we find that God blessed the first day, made it holy, and set it apart as
the Lord’s Day? The answer is nowhere! It is simply a fabrication based on human tradition.
Well did Jesus say: ‘in vain do they worship me teaching as doctrines the commandments of
men.’ (Mark 7:7)

According to Francis, in a radio address on August 12, 2015:

“The obsession with economic profit and technical efficiency puts the human rhythms of life at
risk. Moments of rest, especially on Sunday, are sacred because in them we find God. The
Sunday Eucharist brings to our celebrations every grace of Jesus Christ: his presence, his love
and his sacrifice; his forming us into a community, and his way of being with us.”

There is no evidence in Scripture that Jesus established the Sunday Eucharist. Jesus did
establish the Lord’ Supper, but it was on a Thursday evening! If Jesus intended His
followers to celebrate the Eucharist on Sunday, why did He institute the Lord’s Supper on
Thursday evening? Jesus certainly did not celebrate it with His disciples on resurrection
Sunday because He had already told them on Thursday evening that he would not drink the
cup again with them until He entered His kingdom. If Jesus had wanted his disciples to
celebrate the Eucharist on Sunday, He could have celebrated it with His disciples on Sunday




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 377 of 385
night. After all, His blood had been shed and his body had been broken. But what Jesus ate
was part of a honeycomb and a portion of a broiled fish (Luke 24:36-43).

In a somewhat pantheistic conclusion, Francis ends his encyclical by appealing to the Mass,
Sunday, the Trinity and the intercession of Mary. There is much truth in the encyclical but it
is laced with error. If you drink 100,000 parts of water mixed with one part of cyanide, it
will kill you. A great degree of truth laced with a slender part of error can be spiritually
deadly.

A Deceptive System:

Why are so many clergymen and politicians in the Christian world wondering after the
papal system? The reason is that they have chosen to cast aside the lurid history of the
papacy, either because of ignorance or because they think that the system has changed.
Many claim that the papacy of today is not the same papacy of the past. But in this they
ignore the fact that the papacy itself claims that it does not change. Its motto is Semper
idem, ‘always the same’. But the simple fact is that the papacy cannot any more change its
fundamental nature than a person can change his DNA. Persons may change their external
appearance but their DNA remains the same. Likewise, the papacy may give itself a facelift
but underneath the change of appearance is the same DNA.

Ellen White has well described the deceptive nature of the papacy in GC, p. 571:

“The papacy is just what prophecy declared that she would be, the apostasy of the latter times.
2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4 It is a part of her policy to assume the character which will best
accomplish her purpose; but beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon she conceals
the invariable venom of the serpent.”

A chameleon is a lizard that is able to change colors depending on the environment where
it is found. In this way it is able to camouflage itself from its potential enemies. But despite
the change in external color, a chameleon is a chameleon still! This is the way in which the
papacy operates. On the surface it appears innocuous and charitable but by its very nature,
when it ascends to power, it is despotic, totalitarian and rules with an iron fist.

Many have pointed out that Jesuit Pope Francis I has exhibited great love for the destitute
and outcasts of society. He washes the feet of prisoners, lives in humble quarters, drives an
old beat up car, lays hands on children, hugs lepers, refuses to judge gays, speaks about
love and peace and fights for the preservation of the environment. Above all, he defends
the rights of the poor. This has led most of the world to have a positive image of the Roman
Catholic system.

It is striking that what Francis does is quite similar to what Jesus did while He was on
earth! This has led many to conclude that he is the representative of Christ on earth. But it
is really a masterful counterfeit. He who claims to be Vicarius Filii Dei, or Vicarius Christi,



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 378 of 385
the one who claims to occupy the place of Jesus on earth, is actually the Man of Sin who ‘sits
in the temple of God [the church] claiming that he is God’ (2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4)

It is sobering to realize that Judas Iscariot also manifested a seeming interest in the poor!
And Judas, who is called ‘the Son of Perdition’, wanted a temporal earthly kingdom and had
his own colleagues fooled until the very end. Is it any surprise that the papacy is presently
able to deceive almost the entire world? Is it any coincidence that 2 Thessalonians 2 refers
to the papacy with the same name as Judas, ‘the son of perdition’?

And remember that Francis I is a member of the Jesuit Order. Regarding their mode of
operation, Ellen White explains:

“When appearing as members of their order, they wore a garb of sanctity, visiting prisons
and hospitals, ministering to the sick and the poor, professing to have renounced the
world, and bearing the sacred name of Jesus, who went about doing good. But under this
blameless exterior the most criminal and deadly purposes were often concealed.” P. 235
The papacy has not yet overtly brought its Sunday agenda openly to the forefront for we
are told that:

“The Sunday movement is now making its way in darkness. The leaders are concealing the
true issue, and many who unite in the movement do not themselves see whither the
undercurrent is tending. Its professions are mild and apparently Christian, but when it
shall speak it will reveal the spirit of the dragon.” 5T, p. 452

A Providential Name
In the context of what I have written, the Seventh-day Adventist Church has special
relevance for this time. Our very name was providentially chosen for a time such as this!
Think of it. Our very name points us to a supernatural beginning and a supernatural end—
creation in seven literal days and the second coming of Jesus!
The three angels’ message has the same beginning and ending point. The first angel’s
message commands the entire world to worship the creator (Revelation 14:7) and this
directs our attention to the literal seven-day beginning. And immediately after the third
message, Jesus is seen sitting on a cloud and coming to the earth pointing us to the second
coming (Revelation 14:14). While the first angel’s message commands us to worship the
Creator, the third warns us not to worship the beast. Thus, worshiping the Creator and
worshiping the beast are opposites. If the Sabbath is the sign of the true Creator then the
beast must have a day that is a counterfeit sign. Ellen White was correct when she wrote:
“No name which we can take will be appropriate but that which accords with our
profession and expresses our faith and marks us a peculiar people. The name Seventh-
day Adventist is a standing rebuke to the Protestant world. Here is the line of distinction
between the worshipers of God and those who worship the beast and receive his mark.”
Testimonies for the Church, pp. 223, 224



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 379 of 385
And thus she warned:
“The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this [the papacy’s] most dangerous
foe to civil and religious liberty.” GC, p. 566
There is no other church in the world that claims that their mission is to reach the world
with the three angels’ message. God knew that the remnant church needed to have a name
that would distinguish it from the apostate triumvirate. Our very name is a witness and a
rebuke to Catholicism, Protestantism and worldlings and stands in contrast to their view of
the beginning and the end.

Secrets Unsealed’s Task
From its very inception, Secrets Unsealed has committed itself to preaching the three
angels’ message. We believe that our God-given duty is to call the world to worship the
Creator and to shun the beast (the papacy), his image (the union of church and state in the
United States), and his mark (enforced Sunday observance under the pretense of saving the
planet). Pure and simple, this is the reason why we exist! Ellen White has written
concerning the reason for our existence as a church:

“There is no other work of so great importance. They are to allow nothing else to absorb
their attention.” 9T, p. 19

As we have traveled to different places, many have expressed appreciation that we have
kept the three angels’ logo on our exhibition booth, our letterhead, our newsletter and our
fund raising letters.

Recently someone asked me somewhat sarcastically: If Secrets Unsealed is all about the
three angels’ message why did you waste three years on the women’s ordination issue? My
answer was swift: The first angel’s message calls us to worship the creator and to return to
His original Genesis plan. The Genesis plan includes the Sabbath, marriage, diet and the
roles that God has assigned to men and women in the home and in the church. In fact, Paul
directs us back to creation when he refers to the roles of men and women in the home and
in the church (1 Timothy 2:12, 13; 1 Corinthians 11:1-11).

Further, the relationship between the Father and the Son in the Godhead is reflected in the
relationship between Adam and Eve at creation (Genesis 1:26, 27). Thus the roles that God
established at the beginning go the very heart of the gospel. A son equal with the Father
and yet subject to his authority is reflected in the woman equal to the man but subject to
his authority!

Ellen White has warned about the dangers that face the United States when it dabbles with
the papacy:

“God's word has given warning of the impending danger; let this be unheeded, and the
Protestant world will learn what the purposes of Rome really are, only when it is too late to



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 380 of 385
escape the snare [the USA is presently nibbling at the entrance to the snare smelling the
delicious food inside. A snare is meant to deceive the victim into thinking that it is safe to eat
the food]. GC, p. 581

Flaws of Francis’s Arguments
Although the Pope’s speeches, tweets and encyclical have much with which we can agree,
there are several areas where we would disagree, here are some of them:
First, how can Pope Francis encourage us to care for God’s created order when he does not
even believe that the creation story is literal?
Second, even if the Pope believed in a literal seven-day creation week (which he does not!)
he has chosen the wrong day to commemorate it. The Bible is unambiguously clear that the
day to allow the created order to rest is on the seventh-day Sabbath, not on Sunday!
Third, the motivation behind Francis’ call for his reforms is open to question. It seems like
the ultimate objective of his climate change/family/poverty crusade is global control.
Fourth, even though climate change, family and poverty are directly related to explosive
population growth, the Pope simply brushes this factor aside because his church is opposed
to birth control. In paragraph 50 of his encyclical he reprimands those who claim that
population growth is a significant factor in the crisis the world presently faces:
“Instead of resolving the problems of the poor and thinking of how the world can be different,
some can only propose a reduction in the birth rate . . . demographic growth is fully
compatible with an integral and shared development”. To blame population growth instead of
extreme and selective consumerism on the part of some, is one way of refusing to face the
issues.”
Fifth, Pope Francis fails to address the impact of animal husbandry upon the environment.
Some scientists esteem that more than 50% of the methane gas in the atmosphere comes
from animal dung rather than fossil fuels. Furthermore, animal husbandry not only defiles
the air we breathe but also the rivers and the oceans. If Francis is so concerned about the
God’s creation plan, why not encourage everyone to become a vegan? What good is it to tell
everyone in the Vatican to turn off lights and turn down the air conditioners and then be a
voracious meat eater that keeps the meat-producers mass-producing animals that will
defile the environment?
Finally, Francis lacks a clear concept of how things began and how they will end. The Bible
states that things will wax worse and worse and the second coming will be the only
solution to the problem. The Pope, however, sees a great future for the planet under the
‘moral’ leadership of the papacy.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 381 of 385
True Motivations

What then can be done about the serious problems the world faces today? It all boils down
to selfishness. Selfish people do not wish to care for the environment or share with the less
fortunate. Until the root problem of selfishness is solved, the problems will not disappear.
The socialistic ideal of Pope Francis would only work in a world of people who are other-
centered.

After the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the Day of Pentecost 3,000 souls were converted
and baptized. In consequence we are told that ‘all who believed were together, and had all
things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all, as
anyone had need” (Acts 2:44, 45).

Did the church encourage the Roman government to confiscate the goods of the wealthy to
help the poor? Did the church encourage the Roman state to expropriate the lands of the
rich to give to the poor? No! The common destination of goods for the common good flowed
spontaneously from the hearts of converted people. It is not by legislative enactments of
the United Nations that change will come in the world but rather by a change of human
hearts. Ellen White explains:

‘The government under which Jesus lived was corrupt and oppressive; on every hand were
crying abuses—extortion, intolerance, and grinding cruelty. Yet the Saviour attempted no
civil reforms. He attacked no national abuses, nor condemned the national enemies. He did
not interfere with the authority or administration of those in power. He who was our example
kept aloof from earthly governments. Not because He was indifferent to the woes of men, but
because the remedy did not lie in merely human and external measures. To be efficient, the
cure must reach men individually, and must regenerate the heart.” DA, p. 509

What is the cause of climate change and poverty? Francis affirms that it is due, to a great
degree, to human abuse of the environment. But is this the real cause or is he merely
seeking to heal a symptom rather than the disease? Let’s take an analogy. If someone has a
stroke someone might ask: What caused that stroke? The most likely answer is that it was
caused by high blood pressure. But is that really the cause of the stroke? A better question
would be: What caused the high blood pressure? Would it not be stress or the wrong diet?

The real problems that afflict the world are not poverty or climate change or the
disintegration of the family. These are merely symptoms of the problem and the problem is
human selfishness!

International treaties and laws will not solve the root problem. Uttering nice slogans and
giving speeches won’t do it either; neither will it do any good to scare people with
doomsday scenarios. To truly address the problem, the heart must be changed. And what
changes the heart? A view of a wonderful, loving, good, generous Creator! A view of a
Creator Who was willing to come down and take our flesh to redeem our failure! And that



       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 382 of 385
God has given us a reminder of his creative and redemptive love—the Sabbath. The God
who rested from His creative works on the Sabbath also rested from His redemptive works
on the same day. And the observance of the same Sabbath is a prolepsis of the day when
God will make a new heaven and a new earth and we will go to bow down before Him on a
weekly basis as our marvelous Creator, Redeemer and Restorer.

SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISTS REAFFIRM COMMITMENT TO
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT.

ENCOURAGE ALL MEMBERS TO BE GOOD STEWARDS.
December 03, 2015 | Silver Spring, Maryland USA | ANN Staff

As world leaders gather in Paris for the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference, the
Seventh-day Adventist Church supports and applauds the efforts of these leaders to come
to an agreement to stem the deterioration of our earth due to climate change.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church has long supported responsible stewardship of all God
has created and reinforces its belief that we all need to be responsible for the resources He
has given us. As early as 1995 the Church issued an official statement on the Environment.
The statement reads as follows:

“Seventh-day Adventists believe that humankind was created in the image of God, thus
representing God as His stewards, to rule the natural environment in a faithful and fruitful
way.

Unfortunately, corruption and exploitation have been brought into the management of the
human domain of responsibility. Increasingly men and women have been involved in a
megalomaniacal destruction of the earth's resources, resulting in widespread suffering,
environmental disarray, and the threat of climate change. While scientific research needs to
continue, it is clear from the accumulated evidence that the increasing emission of
destructive gasses, the depletion of the protective mantel of ozone, the massive destruction
of the American forests, and the so-called greenhouse effect, are all threatening the earth's
eco-system.

These problems are largely due to human selfishness and the egocentric pursuit of getting
more and more through ever-increasing production, unlimited consumption and depletion
of nonrenewable resources. The ecological crisis is rooted in humankind's greed and
refusal to practice good and faithful stewardship within the divine boundaries of creation.

Seventh-day Adventists advocate a simple, wholesome lifestyle, where people do not step
on the treadmill of unbridled consumerism, goods-getting, and production of waste. We call




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 383 of 385
for respect of creation, restraint in the use of the world's resources, reevaluation of one's
needs, and reaffirmation of the dignity of created life.”

We support the efforts of world leaders and all humankind to protect and respect that
which has been created by God and entrusted to us.




       “The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 384 of 385
                   Secrets Unsealed is a non-profit ministry
          Your prayers and financial support are greatly appreciated


                        SECRETS UNSEALED
                           5949 E. Clinton Ave.
                            Fresno, CA 93727
                         559-264-2300 (USA & Int’l)
               888-REV-1412 (USA Only) | 888-738-1412 (USA Only)
              SecretsUnsealed.org | info@secretsunsealed.org

      Youtube.com/secretsunsealed | Facebook.com/secretsunsealed




“The Great Prophecies of Daniel & Revelation” by Pastor Stephen Bohr | Page 385 of 385
