                                                                Table of Contents
Lesson #1 – The Literary Structure of Revelation 12-22 ......................................................... 3

Revelation 12-22 Chart............................................................................................................................................. 4

Lesson #2 – Revelation 15:1-8: Without an Intercessor ........................................................... 5

Lesson #3 – Revelation 16: An Introduction to the Plagues .............................................. 23

Lesson #4 – Three Perspectives of the Last Three Plagues .............................................. 35

Lesson #5 – The Last Three Plagues of Revelation 16............................................................ 57

Lesson #6 - Decoding the Mysteries of Revelation 17............................................................. 71

Parallels Between Revelation 12, 13 and 17 Chart .................................................................... 94

Lesson #7 – Revelation 18: The Demise of Babylonian Capitalism .......................... 111

Lesson #8 – Here Comes The Bride: Eastern Wedding Customs ................................ 145

Lesson #9 – Revelation 19:1-9: Song of Praise to the King.............................................. 161

Chart: Sequence of Events in Revelation 14-19.......................................................................... 163

Lesson #10 – Revelation 19:11-21: The Battle of Armageddon .................................... 181

Lesson #11 – Daniel 11:40-45 and the Final Crisis ................................................................... 203

Lesson #12 – The Special Resurrection.............................................................................................. 221

Lesson #13 – The Typology of Sennacherib’s Invasion........................................................ 231

Lesson #14 – Isaiah 24:21-23: The Millennium in the Old Testament.................... 239

Lesson #15 – The Millennium: Changing the Ordinance ..................................................... 249

Lesson #16 – The Four Cycles of Revelation’s Millennium ............................................... 261

Lesson #17 – Sins of Commission and Omission ....................................................................... 281

Lesson #18 – Reflections on Second Death .................................................................................... 293

Lesson #19 – Revelation 21:9-22:21: Like a Bride Adorned for Her Husband 317

Lesson #20 – Keep the Commandments or Wash their Robes? ................................... 329

Lesson #21 – The Right to the Tree of Life ...................................................................................... 335

Lesson #22 – The Therapeutic Tree of Life ..................................................................................... 347

Lesson #23 – Righteousness by Faith and the Final Conflict ........................................ 361

Lesson #24 – The River Dragon: Its Meaning in Scripture ................................................ 401
Contact Information .......................................................................................................................................................... 421
                                                                           Page 2 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                        ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
         “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
              A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                          by Pastor Stephen Bohr


(Note: Required reading for this entire class: The Great Controversy, pp. 603-678)




Lesson #1 – The Literary Structure of Revelation 12-22




                 This section is blank intentionally.
                   Please proceed to the next page.




                                                                           Page 3 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 12-22 Chart
(to view larger version of this chart go to:
https://store-58mm4kv8p.mybigcommerce.com/content/PDF_downloads/Chart-Anchor21-LiteraryStructureofRev12-22.pdf




                                                                           Page 4 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    Lesson #2 – Revelation 15:1-8: Without an Intercessor

Verse 1

“Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous: seven angels having
the seven last [eschátas] plagues, for in them the wrath of God is complete.”

This verse portrays seven angels in the most holy place (see verses 5-8) of the
heavenly sanctuary receiving from God the seven bowls with the seven last
plagues. At this point the angels have not yet poured out the plagues but they
are preparing to do so. The word ‘last’ is eschátas from where we get the word
‘eschatology’.

It is not coincidental that God will give the seven angels the plagues in the most
holy place of the heavenly sanctuary (Revelation 16:1) where the ark of the
covenant is found. The Ten Commandments, the foundation of God’s
government, are inside the ark. When Israel was in a faithful covenant
relationship with the Lord and went to battle against their enemies they bore
the ark in front of the troops and God protected them (Joshua 6:13). However,
when Israel broke their covenant relationship with the Lord, the glory of the
Lord departed from them and the ark did not protect them from their enemies
(1 Samuel 4:3-11, 21, 22).

                                                                           Page 5 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
When the uncircumcised Philistines captured the ark and placed it beside their
fish-god Dagon, the idol fell on its face and the second time the idol lost its head
and both extremities (1 Samuel 5:1-5). The ark then poured out plagues upon
the cities of the Philistines (1 Samuel 5:6-12).

The so-called Christian world after the close of probation will have trampled on
God’s Law and they will have no protection from the enemy. However, God’s
people, who have a strong covenant relationship with the Lord will be
protected.

The number seven symbolizes fullness or completeness. Examples:

    Creation was complete in seven days
    The city of Jericho was completely destroyed when the armies marched
      around it for seven days and seven times on the seventh day.
    Naaman was totally clean after dipping in the Jordan seven times.
    The seven churches depict the totality of church history.
    The seven seals depict seven stages of world history since apostolic
      times.
    The seven trumpets cover the totality of human history.
    The seven plagues are the total outpouring of God’s wrath.
    The seven horns on the head of Jesus represent His total power.
    The seven eyes of Jesus represent totality of wisdom.
    The blood sprinkled seven times totally cleansed the sanctuary.
    The furnace heated seven times hotter meant total heat.

Before God pours out the seven eschatological plagues, He mingles His
judgments with mercy but the seven eschatological plagues are the full and
total outpouring of his justice without mixture of mercy. Revelation 14:10


                                                                           Page 6 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
refers to this as ‘the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without
mixture [‘full strength, NKJV’] into the cup of his indignation’.

We are not to conceive of God’s wrath as ‘anger’ or ‘revenge’ as commonly
understood, but rather as a manifestation of His strict justice. Just before the
close of probation God will give every inhabitant of the world the choice either
to receive the seal of God or the mark of the beast. Every person on the planet
will choose sides. When all have made their irrevocable decision, God will
release the plague angels.

The outpouring of God’s holy wrath in the plagues is for those who worshiped
the beast and his image and received his mark (Revelation 14:9-11). In contrast
to this, is a group who gained the victory over the beast and his image and
refused to receive the mark. The book of Revelation refers to this group as the
144,000 (Revelation 15:2-4). The third angel warns the world before the close
of probation not to worship the beast or his image or receive his mark because,
if they do, they will drink the wine of God’s wrath without mixture of mercy.
There is no excuse for being on the wrong side!

Ellen White clearly states that God will pour out the plagues after the close of
probation:

“The world is soon to be left by the angel of mercy, and the seven last plagues
are to be poured out.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel
Workers, p. 182

“The nations are now getting angry, but when our High Priest has finished His
work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of vengeance,
and then the seven last plagues will be poured out . . . I saw that the four angels
would hold the four winds until Jesus' work was done in the sanctuary, and then
will come the seven last plagues.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 36

“The words will soon be spoken, "Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath
of God upon the earth." One of the ministers of vengeance declares. "And I heard


                                                                           Page 7 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the angel of the waters say, ‘Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and
shalt be, because Thou hast judged thus.’ These heavenly beings, in executing the
mandate of God, ask no questions, but do as they are bid. Jehovah of hosts, the
Lord God Almighty, the just, the true, and the holy, has given them their work to
do. With unswerving fidelity, they go forth panoplied in pure white linen, having
their breasts girded with golden girdles. And when their task is done, when the
last vial of God's wrath is poured out, they return and lay their emptied vials
at the feet of the Lord. And the next scene is recorded, ‘After these things . . . I
heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters,
and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God
Omnipotent reigneth. [Revelation 19:6]" They sing the [the 144,000].’”
Testimonies to Ministers, p. 432
It is significant that Ellen White quotes Revelation 19:6—a great multitude
singing at the marriage supper of the Lamb—and applies it to the 144,000 in
heaven after the plagues are over. Thus, the book of Revelation contains four
views of the 144,000 with different emphases:

    Revelation 7:1-8 The sealing of the 144,000.
    Revelation 14:1-5: The character of the 144,000.
    Revelation 15:2, 3: The victory of the 144,000.
    Revelation 19:1-9: The jubilatory song of praise to God of the 144,000.

Verses 2-4

“And I saw something like a sea of glass mingled with fire, and those who have
[present tense] the victory over the beast, over his image and over his mark and
over the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God.
“They sing [present tense] the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song
of the Lamb, saying: "Great and marvelous are Your works, Lord God Almighty!
Just and true are Your ways, O King of the saints! Who shall not fear You, O Lord,
and glorify Your name? for You alone are holy. For all nations shall come [future


                                                                           Page 8 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
tense] and worship before You, for [because] Your judgments have been
manifested."

The sea is not made of glass but rather is like glass mingled with fire because it
shines with the glory that emanates from God’s throne (Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, p. 648). Clearly, at this point the 144,000 are standing
victorious in heaven before the throne of God. They have gained the victory
over the beast, his image, his mark and the number of his name. This means that
Revelation 15:2-4 is the climax of Revelation 14:20. Revelation 16:1 is a
parenthetical statement that introduces Revelation 15:5-8 and Revelation 16.
This is how it works out:

    Revelation 14:20: Christ and His angels trample the winepress at the
     seventh plague and deliver God’s people who are spiritually in Jerusalem.
    Revelation 15:1: Headline for the events described in Revelation 15:5-8
     and chapter 16.
    Revelation 15:2-4: The 144,000 stand victorious in heaven after Christ
     and the angels have trampled the winepress.
    Revelation 15:5-8: The close of probation.
    Revelation 16: The outpouring of the seven plagues.

The backdrop for the song of Moses and the Lamb is in the story of the
deliverance of Israel from the armies of the Egyptians at the Red Sea (Exodus
14, 15). When we study the plagues in Revelation 16 we will draw a striking
parallel between the events at the Red Sea and the events that will transpire
during the last three plagues.

In their song, the 144,000 refer to God as the ‘king of the saints’ because the
pre-advent investigative judgment has previously revealed who are the
members of the kingdom. In 1844, Jesus went into the presence of the Father
in the most holy place to receive the kingdom from His Father. At the conclusion
of the judgment, once the subjects of the kingdom are made up, the Father gives
the kingdom to Jesus and the saints (Daniel 7:13, 14, 27).

                                                                           Page 9 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The expression in the song ‘just and true are your ways’ brings to mind the
pleas of the martyrs that are under the altar in the fifth seal (Revelation :9-11):

“How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You judge and avenge our blood on those
who dwell on the earth?"

God judges the cases of the martyrs during the pre-Advent investigative
judgment and during the second and third plagues He does the avenging. Even
further, the second and third plagues—the seas and fountains of waters turned
into blood—are not only God’s response to the pleas of the martyrs of the past
but also His answer to the death decree against the 144,000 during the time of
trouble. The living saints have also cried out for the Lord to judge and avenge
the blood that their enemies intended to shed (see Luke 18:1-8):

Revelation 16:4-7

“Then the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water, and
they became blood. 5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying: "You are
righteous, O Lord, the One who is and who was and who is to be, because You
have judged these things. 6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets,
and You have given them blood to drink. For it is their just due." 7 And I heard
another from the altar saying, "Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous
are Your judgments."

After quoting the verses that refer to the outpouring of the second and third
plagues, Ellen White wrote:

“By condemning the people of God [the 144,000] to death, they have as truly
incurred the guilt of their blood as if it had been shed by their hands. In like
manner Christ declared the Jews of His time guilty of all the blood of holy men
which had been shed since the days of Abel; for they possessed the same spirit
and were seeking to do the same work with these murderers of the prophets.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 627



                                                                          Page 10 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 19:1, 2 picks up on the victorious song of the 144,000:

“After these things I heard a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying,
‘Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God! 2
For true and righteous are His judgments, because He has judged the great
harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication; and He has avenged on her
the blood of His servants shed by her.’”

The song of the 144,000 not only praises God for delivering them at the end of
the time of trouble. The song takes us beyond the millennium when God will
reveal His righteous judgments before Satan, his angels and the wicked. Ellen
White described the post-millennial event:

“As if entranced, the wicked have looked upon the coronation of the Son of God.
They see in His hands the tables of the divine law, the statutes which they have
despised and transgressed. They witness the outburst of wonder, rapture, and
adoration from the saved; and as the wave of melody sweeps over the multitudes
without the city, all with one voice exclaim, "Great and marvelous are Thy works,
Lord God Almighty; just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints" (Revelation
15:3); and, falling prostrate, they worship the Prince of life.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 668, 669

“In the day of final judgment, every lost soul will understand the nature of his own
rejection of truth. The cross will be presented, and its real bearing will be seen by
every mind that has been blinded by transgression. Before the vision of Calvary
with its mysterious Victim, sinners will stand condemned. Every lying excuse will
be swept away. Human apostasy will appear in its heinous character. Men will see
what their choice has been. Every question of truth and error in the long-
standing controversy will then have been made plain. In the judgment of the
universe, God will stand clear of blame for the existence or continuance of evil. It
will be demonstrated that the divine decrees are not accessory to sin. There was
no defect in God's government, no cause for disaffection. When the thoughts of all
hearts shall be revealed, both the loyal and the rebellious will unite in declaring,


                                                                          Page 11 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
"Just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints. Who shall not fear Thee, O Lord,
and glorify Thy name? . . . for Thy judgments are made manifest" Revelation 15:3,
4” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 58

Ellen White presents a clear chronological sequence of events from the close of
probation to the deliverance of the 144,000:

“I saw that the four angels would hold the four winds until Jesus' work was done
in the sanctuary, and then will come the seven last plagues. These plagues
enraged the wicked against the righteous; they thought that we had brought the
judgments of God upon them, and that if they could rid the earth of us, the
plagues would then be stayed. A decree went forth to slay the saints, which
caused them to cry day and night for deliverance. This was the time of Jacob's
trouble. Then all the saints cried out with anguish of spirit, and were delivered
by the voice of God. The 144,000 triumphed. Their faces were lighted up with
the glory of God.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 36, 37

This quotation is significant because it presents a series of events after the close
of probation in chronological order:

    The angels hold the four winds.
    Jesus finishes His work in the sanctuary.
    The angels pour out the seven plagues.
    The plagues enrage the wicked against the 144,000.
    The wicked give a death decree against the 144,000.
    The time of Jacob’s trouble ensues.
    The 144,000 cry day and night for deliverance.
    God’s voice delivers the 144,000 and their faces light up.

Ellen White wrote about the moment when the 144,000 gain the victory over
the worshipers of the beast, his image and his mark. Notably, she refers to the


                                                                          Page 12 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
144,000 as the Israel of God which proves that we are dealing with spiritual
Israel:

“The Israel of God stood with their eyes fixed upward, listening to the words as
they came from the mouth of Jehovah and rolled through the earth like peals of
loudest thunder. It was awfully solemn. At the end of every sentence the saints
shouted, "Glory! Hallelujah!" Their countenances were lighted up with the glory
of God, and they shone with glory as did the face of Moses when he came down
from Sinai. The wicked could not look upon them for the glory. And when the
never-ending blessing was pronounced on those who had honored God in keeping
His Sabbath holy, there was a mighty shout of victory over the beast and over
his image.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 285, 286

John saw the smoke and din of the final battle and the joyous song of the
144,000 upon their deliverance:

“While John was shown the last great struggles of the church with earthly powers,
he was also permitted to behold the final victory and deliverance of the
faithful. He saw the church brought into deadly conflict with the beast and his
image, and the worship of that beast enforced on pain of death. But looking
beyond the smoke and din of the battle [Armageddon], he beheld a company
upon Mount Zion with the Lamb, having, instead of the mark of the beast, the
"Father's name written in their foreheads." And again he saw [now Ellen White
cites Revelation 15:2, 3] "them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and
over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the
sea of glass, having the harps of God" and singing the song of Moses and the
Lamb.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pp. 752, 753

Ellen White intermingled the descriptions of the 144,000 in Revelation 7, 14
and 15:

“Upon the crystal sea before the throne, that sea of glass as it were mingled with
fire, --so resplendent is it with the glory of God, --are gathered the company that
have "gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark,

                                                                          Page 13 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and over the number of his name." [Revelation 15:2] With the Lamb upon Mount
Zion [Revelation 14:1], "having the harps of God," [Revelation 15:2] they stand,
the hundred and forty and four thousand that were redeemed from among men
[Revelation 14:4]; and there is heard, as the sound of many waters, and as the
sound of a great thunder, "the voice of harpers harping with their harps."
[Revelation 14:2] And they sing "a new song" before the throne, a song which no
man can learn save the hundred and forty and four thousand [Revelation 14:3].
It is the song of Moses and the Lamb--a song of deliverance [Revelation 15:3].
None but the hundred and forty-four thousand can learn that song [Revelation
14:3]; for it is the song of their experience--an experience such as no other
company have ever had. "These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever He
goeth." [Revelation 14:1] These, having been translated from the earth, from
among the living, are counted as "the first fruits unto God and to the Lamb."
[Revelation 14:4] "These are they which came out of great tribulation;"
[Revelation 7:14] they have passed through the time of trouble such as never was
since there was a nation; they have endured the anguish of the time of Jacob's
trouble; they have stood without an intercessor [after the close of probation]
through the final outpouring of God's judgments [the seven last plagues]. But they
have been delivered, for they have "washed their robes, and made them white in
the blood of the Lamb." [Revelation 7:14] "In their mouth was found no guile: for
they are without fault" [Revelation 14:5] before God. "Therefore are they before
the throne of God, and serve Him day and night in His temple: and He that sitteth
on the throne shall dwell among them." [Revelation 7:15] They have seen the
earth wasted with famine and pestilence, the sun having power to scorch men
with great heat [Revelation 16:8, 9], and they themselves have endured
suffering, hunger, and thirst. But "they shall hunger no more, neither thirst any
more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the Lamb which is in
the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains
of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." [Revelation 7:16,
17]. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 648, 649



                                                                          Page 14 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Verse 5

Revelation 11:19

“After these things I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the
testimony in heaven was opened.”

The opening of the door in this verse reminds us of the same door that was
opened in 1844 for the beginning of the judgment. Although the door in both
instances is the same, the historical occasion and the reason for opening it is
different. The door in Revelation 11:19 was opened for God’s people to enter
there by faith and to follow the final work of Christ in the most holy place.
However, the door in Revelation 15:5 is opened for the plague angels to come
out because Christ’s ministration has ended:

Without exception, Ellen White applied the opening of the door in Revelation
11:19 to 1844:

“Therefore the announcement that the temple of God was opened in Heaven, and
the ark of his testament was seen, points to the opening of the most holy place
of the heavenly sanctuary, in 1844, as Christ entered there to perform the closing
work of the atonement. Those who by faith followed their great High Priest, as
he entered upon his ministry in the most holy place, beheld the ark of his
testament. As they had studied the subject of the sanctuary, they had come to
understand the Savior's change of ministration, and they saw that he was now
officiating before the ark of God, pleading his blood in behalf of sinners.” Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, p. 433

It is important to remember that Revelation 11:19 begins a new series of
events in the book of Revelation (the beginning of the investigative judgment)
and Revelation 15:5-8 concludes the series with the end of the judgment.




                                                                          Page 15 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The chronology of Revelation 11:15-19 is tricky. This is how it works:

    The mystery of God (the close of probation) ends when the seventh
     trumpet is about to sound (Revelation 10:7)
    The seventh trumpet concludes in Revelation 11:17 where Jesus takes
     possession of the kingdom at His coming.
    Revelation 11:18 takes us back in time and summarizes the five main
     events of Revelation 12-22 from 1844 onward in chronological order.
    Revelation 11:19 takes back to the starting point of Revelation 12-22.
Ellen White clearly wrote that Revelation 11:18 takes place during the period
of the sixth trumpet, not the seventh.

“Then I saw that Jesus would not leave the most holy place until every case was
decided either for salvation or destruction, and that the wrath of God could not
come until Jesus had finished His work in the most holy place, laid off His priestly
attire, and clothed Himself with the garments of vengeance. Then Jesus will step
out from between the Father and man, and God will keep silence no longer, but
pour out His wrath on those who have rejected His truth. I saw that the [1]
anger of the nations, the [2] wrath of God, and the [3] time to judge the dead
were separate and distinct, one following the other, also that Michael had not
stood up, and that the time of trouble, such as never was, had not yet commenced.
The nations are now getting angry, but when our High Priest has finished His
work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of vengeance, and
then the seven last plagues will be poured out [the wrath of God].” Ellen G. White,
Early Writings, p. 36

Summary of the chronological arrangement in Revelation 11:18, 19:

    Revelation 12-14: ‘The nations were angry’ (the growing anger against
     God’s people).
    Revelation 11:15-17: The seventh trumpet (see GC, p. 301; FW, p.
     115).



                                                                          Page 16 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    Revelation 15-19: ‘Your wrath has come’ (the close of probation and the
     plagues).
    Revelation 20:4, 11: ‘the time to judge the dead’ (the beginning of the
     investigative judgment of the wicked in heaven).
    Revelation 19:11-21; 22:12: ‘the time to reward your servants’ (Jesus
     gives His people their reward at His coming).
    Revelation 20:14, 15: ‘destroy those who destroy the earth’ (the
     destruction of the wicked after the millennium).
    Revelation 11:19: The introduction to chapters 12-14.


Revelation 3:7, 8

"And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write, 'These things says He who
is holy, He who is true, "He who has the key of David, He who opens and no one
shuts, and shuts and no one opens": 8 "I know your works. See, I have set before
you an open door, and no one can shut it; for you have a little strength, have kept
My word, and have not denied My name.”

Ellen White also invariably applies Revelation 3:7, 8 (the sixth church) to the
opening of the door to the most holy place in 1844:

“Men sought to close the door which God had opened, and to open the door
which He had closed. But "He that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth,
and no man openeth," had declared: "Behold, I have set before thee an open door,
and no man can shut it." Revelation 3:7, 8. Christ had opened the door, or
ministration, of the most holy place, light was shining from that open door of the
sanctuary in heaven, and the fourth commandment was shown to be included in
the law which is there enshrined; what God had established, no man could
overthrow.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 435

Verses 6, 7

At this point the plague angels have not yet poured out their vials. This must
refer to the close of probation just before the plagues fall:

                                                                          Page 17 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“And out of the temple came the seven angels having the seven plagues,
clothed in pure bright linen, and having their chests girded with golden bands.
Then one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls
full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever.”

Verse 8

“The temple [the tabernacle is the total sanctuary and the temple of the
tabernacle is the most holy place—see Revelation 11:19] was filled with
smoke from the glory of God and from His power, and no one was able to enter
the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.”

Here is the sequence of events in Revelation 15:

    The plague angels receive the seven bowls when probation closes.
    The plague angels pour out their bowls in consecutive order.
    While the plague angels pour out their bowls the 144,000 living saints
      cannot enter the temple because there is no mediator there.
    After the plagues are poured out only the 144,000 can enter the temple:

      “And as we were about to enter the temple, Jesus raised His lovely voice and
      said, “Only the 144,000 enter this place,” and we shouted, “Alleluia!”
      Heaven, p. 88

There are two occasions in the Old Testament when the earthly sanctuary was
filled with smoke and no one could enter. The first was when the wilderness
tabernacle services were inaugurated and the second was when the priests
placed the ark of the covenant in the most holy place of the temple built by
Solomon:

Exodus 40:34, 35

“Then the cloud covered the tabernacle of meeting, and the glory of the Lord
filled the tabernacle. 35 And Moses was not able to enter the tabernacle of

                                                                          Page 18 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
meeting, because the cloud rested above it, and the glory of the Lord filled the
tabernacle.”

1 Kings 8:10-11

“And it came to pass, when the priests came out of the holy place, that the cloud
filled the house of the Lord, 11 so that the priests could not continue ministering
because of the cloud; for the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord.”

Both of these events in Old Testament times occurred at the beginning of the
sanctuary ministration. However, Revelation 15:8 cannot be referring to the
inauguration of the priestly ministration of Christ but rather to its
consummation. What historical moment is described in Revelation 15:8? When
does Jesus cease to minister for sinners in the sanctuary so that no one can
enter by faith anymore? The answer is the close of probation. Thus, Revelation
15:8 describes the moment when probation closes and Revelation 16 then
describes the seven last plagues.

Revelation 8:3-5: At the conclusion of the temple’s service the censer will
be thrown to the earth and intercession will cease

“Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He was
given much incense that he should offer it with the prayers of all the saints upon
the golden altar which was before the throne. 4 And the smoke of the incense, with
the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand. 5 Then the
angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it to the earth.
And there were noises, thunderings, lightnings, and an earthquake.”

Ellen White vividly described the events that lead to the close of probation and
the outpouring of the plagues:

“I saw angels hurrying to and fro in heaven. An angel with a writer's inkhorn by
his side returned from the earth and reported to Jesus that his work was done,
and the [living] saints were numbered and sealed. Then I saw Jesus, who had
been ministering before the ark containing the Ten Commandments, throw

                                                                          Page 19 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
down the censer. He raised His hands, and with a loud voice said. ‘It is done.’ And
all the angelic host laid off their crowns as Jesus made the solemn declaration, "He
that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still:
and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be
holy still." Revelation 22:11.” Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, p. 402

“As Jesus moved out of the most holy place, I heard the tinkling of the bells upon
His garment; and as He left, a cloud of darkness covered the inhabitants of the
earth. There was then no mediator between guilty man and an offended God.
While Jesus had been standing between God and guilty man, a restraint was upon
the people; but when He stepped out from between man and the Father, the
restraint was removed and Satan had entire control of the finally impenitent. It
was impossible for the plagues to be poured out while Jesus officiated in the
sanctuary; but as His work there is finished, and His intercession closes, there
is nothing to stay the wrath of God, and it breaks with fury upon the shelterless
head of the guilty sinner, who has slighted salvation and hated reproof. In that
fearful time, after the close of Jesus' mediation, the saints were living in the sight
of a holy God without an intercessor. Every case was decided, every jewel
numbered. Jesus tarried a moment in the outer apartment of the heavenly
sanctuary, and the sins which had been confessed while He was in the most holy
place were placed upon Satan, the originator of sin, who must suffer their
punishment.

Then I saw Jesus lay off His priestly attire and clothe Himself with His most
kingly robes. Upon His head were many crowns, a crown within a crown
[Revelation 19:11-21]. Surrounded by the angelic host, He left heaven. The
plagues were falling upon the inhabitants of the earth. Some were denouncing
God and cursing Him. Others rushed to the people of God and begged to be taught
how they might escape His judgments. But the saints had nothing for them. The
last tear for sinners had been shed, the last agonizing prayer offered, the last
burden borne, the last warning given. The sweet voice of mercy was no more to
invite them. When the saints, and all heaven, were interested for their salvation,


                                                                          Page 20 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
they had no interest for themselves. Life and death had been set before them. Many
desired life, but made no effort to obtain it. They did not choose life, and now there
was no atoning blood to cleanse the guilty, no compassionate Savior to plead
for them, and cry, "Spare, spare the sinner a little longer." All heaven had united
with Jesus, as they heard the fearful words, "It is done. It is finished." The plan of
salvation had been accomplished, but few had chosen to accept it. And as mercy's
sweet voice died away, fear and horror seized the wicked. With terrible
distinctness they heard the words, "Too late! too late!"

Those who had not prized God's Word were hurrying to and fro, wandering from
sea to sea, and from the north to the east, to seek the Word of the Lord. Said the
angel: ‘They shall not find it. There is a famine in the land; not a famine of bread,
nor a thirst for water, but for hearing the words of the Lord. What would they not
give for one word of approval from God! but no, they must hunger and thirst on.
Day after day have they slighted salvation, prizing earthly riches and earthly
pleasure higher than any heavenly treasure or inducement. They have rejected
Jesus and despised His saints. The filthy must remain filthy forever.’

Many of the wicked were greatly enraged as they suffered the effects of the
plagues. It was a scene of fearful agony. Parents were bitterly reproaching their
children, and children their parents, brothers their sisters, and sisters their
brothers. Loud, wailing cries were heard in every direction, ‘It was you who kept
me from receiving the truth which would have saved me from this awful hour.’
The people turned upon their ministers with bitter hate and reproached
them, saying, ‘You have not warned us. You told us that all the world was to be
converted, and cried, Peace, peace, to quiet every fear that was aroused. You
have not told us of this hour; and those who warned us of it you declared to be
fanatics and evil men, who would ruin us." But I saw that the ministers did not
escape the wrath of God. Their suffering was tenfold greater than that of their
people.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 280-282




                                                                          Page 21 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 22:10-12

“And he said to me, "Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the
time is at hand. 11 He who is unjust, let him be unjust still; he who is filthy, let him
be filthy still; he who is righteous, let him be righteous still; he who is holy, let him
be holy still." 12 "And behold, I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, to
give to every one according to his work.”




                                                                          Page 22 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr



  Lesson #3 – Revelation 16: An Introduction to the Plagues


Two Backgrounds

Two Old Testament stories stand as the backdrop of Revelation 16:

   Israel’s exodus from Egypt.
   Israel’s deliverance from Babylon.

Covenant Context

It not possible to fully understand the purpose of the plagues without first
understanding the biblical concept of the covenant. When probation closes,
the living saints have a perfect covenant relationship with God and therefore
God promises to protect them. There are four illustrations that help us
understand this covenant relationship:

     The Shepherd protects His sheep.
     The Suzerain protects his vassal
     The Husband protects his bride
     The Head defends His body

                                                                          Page 23 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Who Pours out the Plagues?

Some have suggested that God does not pour out the plagues but rather allows
Satan to do it. However, this does not fit with the biblical evidence. The plague
angels come out from the most holy place of the heavenly sanctuary.

Revelation 15:5-7

“After these things I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the
testimony in heaven was opened. 6 And out of the temple [the most holy place]
came the seven angels having the seven plagues, clothed in pure bright linen,
and having their chests girded with golden bands. 7 Then one of the four living
creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God
who lives forever and ever.”

Some wonder how a loving God can pour out plagues upon His creatures. Ellen
White answered:

“The plea may be made that a loving Father would not see His children suffering
the punishment of God by fire while He had the power to relieve them. But God
would, for the good of His subjects and for their safety, punish the transgressor.
God does not work on the plan of man. He can do infinite justice that man has
no right to do before his fellow man. Noah would have displeased God to have
drowned one of the scoffers and mockers that harassed him, but God drowned
the vast world. Lot would have had no right to inflict punishment on his sons-in-
law, but God would do it in strict justice.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 241

God not only allows Satan and his angels to destroy. There are occasions when
holy angels destroy as well. Ellen White made this point clear:

“The same destructive power exercised by holy angels when God commands, will
be exercised by evil angels when He permits. There are forces now ready and only
waiting the divine permission, to spread desolation everywhere.” Ellen G. White,
The Great Controversy, p. 614


                                                                          Page 24 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The World during the Plagues

Ellen White described the disastrous condition of the world during the
outpouring of the seven last plagues. In the first chapter of The Great
Controversy she described the condition of Jerusalem leading up to its
destruction. And yet Jerusalem was a mere shadow of what will transpire in the
world during the time of trouble. When one reads the first chapter of The Great
Controversy, one wonders how the condition of the world could be worse:

“Satan will then plunge the inhabitants of the earth into one great, final trouble.
As the angels of God cease to hold in check the fierce winds of human passion,
all the elements of strife will be let loose. The whole world will be involved in
ruin more terrible than that which came upon Jerusalem of old.” Ellen G. White,
The Great Controversy, p.614
“Angels are now restraining the winds of strife that they may not blow until the
world shall be warned of its coming doom, but a storm is gathering, ready to burst
upon the earth, and when God shall bid His angels loose the winds there will be
such a scene of strife as no pen can picture.” Ellen G. White, Education, pp 179,
180

“It is often the case that trouble is greater in anticipation than in reality; but this
is not true of the crisis before us. The most vivid presentation cannot reach the
magnitude of the ordeal.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 621, 622

“The forces of darkness will unite with human agents who have given
themselves into the control of Satan, and the same scenes that were exhibited
at the trial, rejection, and crucifixion of Christ will be revived. Through yielding
to satanic influences, men will be transformed into fiends; and those who were
created in the image of God, who were formed to honor and glorify their Creator,
will become the habitation of dragons, and Satan will see in an apostate race
his masterpiece of evil—men who reflect his own image.” Ellen G. White, The
Review and Herald, April 14, 1896



                                                                          Page 25 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Are the Plagues Literal or Symbolic?

The plagues will be very literal. Notice The Great Controversy, pp. 627-629:

“The plagues upon Egypt when God was about to deliver Israel were similar in
character to those more terrible and extensive judgments which are to fall
upon the world just before the final deliverance of God's people. Says the
revelator, in describing those terrific scourges: [Plague #1]: ‘There fell a
noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast and
upon them which worshiped his image.’ [Plague #2]: The sea ‘became as the
blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the sea.’ [Plague #3]: And ‘the
rivers and fountains of waters . . . became blood.’ Terrible as these inflictions are,
God's justice stands fully vindicated. The angel of God declares: ‘Thou art
righteous, O Lord, . . . because Thou hast judged thus. For they have shed the blood
of saints and prophets, and Thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are
worthy.’ Revelation 16:2-6. By condemning the people of God to death, they have
as truly incurred the guilt of their blood as if it had been shed by their hands. In
like manner Christ declared the Jews of His time guilty of all the blood of holy men
which had been shed since the days of Abel; for they possessed the same spirit
and were seeking to do the same work with these murderers of the prophets.

[Plague #4]: ‘In the plague that follows, power is given to the sun ‘to scorch men
with fire. And men were scorched with great heat.’ Verses 8, 9. The prophets thus
describe the condition of the earth at this fearful time: ‘The land mourneth; . . .
because the harvest of the field is perished. . . All the trees of the field are withered:
because joy is withered away from the sons of men.’ ‘The seed is rotten under their
clods; the garners are laid desolate. . . How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle
are perplexed, because they have no pasture. . . The rivers of water are dried up,
and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness.’ ‘The songs of the temple
shall be howlings in that day, saith the Lord God: there shall be many dead bodies
in every place; they shall cast them forth with silence.’ Joel 1:10-12, 17-20; Amos
8:3.


                                                                          Page 26 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“These plagues are not universal, [Plagues #1-4] or the inhabitants of the
earth would be wholly cut off. Yet they will be the most awful scourges that
have ever been known to mortals. All the judgments upon men, prior to the close
of probation, have been mingled with mercy. The pleading blood of Christ has
shielded the sinner from receiving the full measure of his guilt; but in the final
judgment, wrath is poured out unmixed with mercy.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 627-629
The plagues are God’s literal response to specific spiritual maladies in
Babylon. The spiritual leaders of Babylon used their tongues to deceive, they
intended to shed the blood of God’s people, they worshiped on the day of the
sun, they kept the world in darkness and they used the multitudes to persecute
God’s people. Now they reap what they sowed. As we shall see later in our study,
the last three plagues will be very literal but they are described in symbolic
language because Revelation 16-19 must connect with the symbolic
terminology that was previously used in Revelation 12 and 13.

Are the Plagues Local or Global?

Some have misunderstood a statement about the first four plagues in Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, pp. 628, 629:
“These plagues are not universal, or the inhabitants of the earth would be
wholly cut off. Yet they will be the most awful scourges that have ever been
known to mortals. All the judgments upon men, prior to the close of probation,
have been mingled with mercy. The pleading blood of Christ has shielded the
sinner from receiving the full measure of his guilt; but in the final judgment, wrath
is poured out unmixed with mercy.”

There are two ways of understanding the word ‘universal’ in this quotation. It
can mean ‘worldwide’ in terms of geographical extension or it can mean
‘worldwide’ in terms of every person within that geographical extension. The
plagues will fall upon the entire world because Babylon is worldwide but they



                                                                          Page 27 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
will not affect every single person in the world or else everyone would be cut
off.

Notice the following statement in Prophets and Kings, pp. 171 where Ellen
White uses the word ‘universal’ in the second sense:

“Yet this apostasy, widespread as it has come to be, is not universal. Not all in
the world are lawless and sinful; not all have taken sides with the enemy. God
has many thousands who have not bowed the knee to Baal, many who long to
understand more fully in regard to Christ and the law, many who are hoping
against hope that Jesus will come soon to end the reign of sin and death. And there
are many who have been worshiping Baal ignorantly, but with whom the Spirit of
God is still striving.”

The three angels’ messages (including the call to come out of Babylon) are
proclaimed to the entire world (Revelation 14:6, 8; 18:1) and people all over
the world will receive them or reject them. The entire world will have
worshipers of the beast and his image (Revelation 13:3, 11-18) so these plagues
must be global in extension.

The book of Revelation species that Babylon will be a global system at the end
of time and therefore the plagues must fall upon Babylon in the entire world
(Revelation 18:4). If Babylon is a worldwide system, then the Jerusalem that
Babylon surrounds must be worldwide as well.

How long will the Plagues Last?

 At this point we don’t have a precise answer to this question but we do know
that the plagues will last a short time. Notice the following texts:

Isaiah 54:4-8

“For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is His name; and your
Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel; He is called the God of the whole earth. 6 For
the Lord has called you like a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, like a youthful

                                                                          Page 28 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
wife when you were refused," says your God. 7 "For a mere moment I have
forsaken you, but with great mercies I will gather you. 8 With a little wrath I hid
My face from you for a moment; but with everlasting kindness I will have mercy
on you," says the Lord, your Redeemer.”

Isaiah 26:20-21

“Come, my people, enter your chambers, and shut your doors behind you; hide
yourself, as it were, for a little moment, until the indignation is past. 21 For
behold, the Lord comes out of His place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for
their iniquity; the earth will also disclose her blood, and will no more cover her
slain.”

Psalm 30:5

“For His anger is but for a moment, His favor is for life; weeping may endure for
a night, but joy comes in the morning.”

Revelation 18:9, 10, 17, 19

“The kings of the earth who committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her
will weep and lament for her, when they see the smoke of her burning, 10 standing
at a distance for fear of her torment, saying, 'Alas, alas, that great city Babylon,
that mighty city! For in one hour your judgment has come.' 17 For in one hour
such great riches came to nothing.' Every shipmaster, all who travel by ship,
sailors, and as many as trade on the sea, stood at a distance 19 "They threw dust
on their heads and cried out, weeping and wailing, and saying, 'Alas, alas, that
great city, in which all who had ships on the sea became rich by her wealth! For
in one hour she is made desolate.'”

Matthew 24:21-22

“For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning
of the world until this time, no, nor ever shall be. 22 And unless those days were



                                                                          Page 29 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
shortened, no flesh would be saved; but for the elect's sake those days will be
shortened.”

“When Jesus leaves the most holy His restraining Spirit is withdrawn from rulers
and people. They are left to the control of evil angels. Then such laws will be made
by the counsel and direction of Satan that, unless time should be very short, no
flesh could be saved.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, p. 204

The Position of the Death Decree

Revelation 16:5-7 clearly indicates that the wicked will ratify the death decree
because of the devastating effects of the first two plagues. After the fresh
waters turn to blood in the third plague, God explains the reason why He has
given the wicked blood to drink (see Revelation 17:6; 18:20, 24; Matthew
23:29-35; Luke 11:49-51; GC 628):

“By condemning the people of God to death, they have as truly incurred the guilt
of their blood as if it had been shed by their hands.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 628

“I saw the leading men of the earth consulting together, and Satan and his angels
busy around them. I saw a writing, copies of which were scattered in different
parts of the land, giving orders that unless the saints should yield their peculiar
faith, give up the Sabbath, and observe the first day of the week, the people were
at liberty after a certain time, to put them to death.” Ellen G. White, Early
Writings pp. 282, 283

Early Writings, pp. 36, 37 gives us an interesting chronology of the timing of the
death decree:

“Then I saw that Jesus would not leave the most holy place until every case was
decided either for salvation or destruction, and that the wrath of God could not
come until Jesus had finished His work in the most holy place, laid off His priestly
attire, and clothed Himself with the garments of vengeance. Then Jesus will step
out from between the Father and man, and God will keep silence no longer, but

                                                                          Page 30 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
pour out His wrath on those who have rejected His truth. I saw that the anger
of the nations, the wrath of God, and the time to judge the dead [in the light
of Revelation 11:18] were separate and distinct, one following the other, also
that Michael had not stood up, and that the time of trouble, such as never was,
had not yet commenced. The nations are now getting angry, but when our High
Priest has finished His work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the
garments of vengeance, and then the seven last plagues will be poured out.

I saw that the four angels would hold the four winds until Jesus' work was done in
the sanctuary, and then will come the seven last plagues. These plagues enraged
the wicked against the righteous; they thought that we had brought the
judgments of God upon them, and that if they could rid the earth of us, the
plagues would then be stayed. A decree went forth to slay the saints, which
caused them to cry day and night [see Luke 18:1-8] for deliverance. This was the
time of Jacob's trouble. Then all the saints cried out with anguish of spirit, and
were delivered by the voice of God. The 144,000 triumphed. Their faces were
lighted up with the glory of God.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings pp. 36, 37

Are the Plagues Consecutive and Cumulative?

The biblical evidence indicates that the plagues will be consecutive and
cumulative. The first four plagues will have longer intervals between them
than the last three. We know that the plagues are cumulative because each
successive plague increases the rage of the wicked against the living saints.
During this time, God’s people must have learned to trust only in God.

The first four plagues are what I call ‘jeopardy plagues’ because during them,
God’s people are in danger of being annihilated by the wicked. The last three
plagues are what I call ‘deliverance plagues’ because during them, God’s
people will no longer be in danger because the wicked will turn on one another.
The last three plagues flow in quick succession one right after the other.




                                                                          Page 31 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Ellen White’s assessment of the ‘jeopardy plagues’ and ‘deliverance plagues’ is
in the chapter ‘God’s People Delivered’ in GC, pp. 635, 636. Regarding the first
four ‘jeopardy plagues’ Ellen White wrote:

“When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor
the law of God, there will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for
their destruction. As the time appointed in the decree draws near, the people
will conspire to root out the hated sect. It will be determined to strike in one
night a decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the voice of dissent and
reproof.

The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the
forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every
quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing
for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of
Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen. . .

Ellen White continued with a description of the three ‘deliverance plagues’:

“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush [waters rush] upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness [plague #5],
deeper than the darkness of the night, falls upon the earth [darkness for the
wicked]. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the throne of God, spans the
heavens and seems to encircle each praying company [light for God’s people].
The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested [plague #6; Babylon’s waters
dry up on her]. Their mocking cries die away. The objects of their murderous
rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings they gaze upon the symbol of God's
covenant and long to be shielded from its overpowering brightness.

It is at midnight that God manifests His power for the deliverance of His people.
The sun appears, shining in its strength. Signs and wonders follow in quick
succession. The wicked look with terror and amazement upon the scene, while the
righteous behold with solemn joy the tokens of their deliverance. Everything in
nature seems turned out of its course. The streams cease to flow. Dark, heavy

                                                                          Page 32 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
clouds come up and clash against each other. In the midst of the angry heavens is
one clear space of indescribable glory, whence comes the voice of God like the
sound of many waters, saying: "It is done." Revelation 16:17.” [plague #7]

The Moral Reason for the Plagues

“The plagues upon Egypt when God was about to deliver Israel were similar in
character to those more terrible and extensive judgments which are to fall upon
the world just before the final deliverance of God's people.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 627, 628
The seven last plagues accomplish five things just like they did in Egypt:

    In each plague God says to the wicked: ‘let my people go’.
    Each plague afflicts the favorite ‘gods’ of the Christian world.
      “The Lord God of Israel is to execute judgment upon the gods of this
      world as upon the gods of Egypt. With fire and flood, plagues and
      earthquakes, He will spoil the whole land. Then His redeemed people will
      exalt His name and make it glorious in the earth. Shall not those who are
      living in the last remnant of this earth's history become intelligent in regard
      to God's lessons?” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 10, pp. 240, 241
    The reaction of the wicked to the plagues will reveal that their choice is
     irreversible. Instead of repenting, each plague further enrages the
     wicked against God’s people like they did with Pharaoh in Egypt
     (Revelation 16:8-11).
    The plagues put God’s people in an inescapable situation to show the
     universe that their faith is fixed for eternity and not even death can shake
     their trust in God. When all is said and done the universe will see that the
     final generation does not serve God for the loaves and the fishes but out
     of pure love. The story of the three young men in the furnace and Daniel
     in the lion’s den will be repeated with the living saints on a global scale.


                                                                          Page 33 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The deliverance of the saints will exalt the glory of God and prove that
     God is faithful to His covenant. None of the glory will belong to the saints.
     If God did not intervene to deliver them they would perish (Ezekiel
     38:18-23).

Some Adventists today fear the plagues and hope to be laid to rest before their
outpouring. However, there is no reason to fear. The plagues are for Babylon in
its three ramifications (Revelation 14:8-11; 18:4, 8, 10), not for God’s people.
At no point do the plagues afflict the righteous so there is no need to fear them.
Although God’s people will have no mediator for sin they will have an almighty
protector (see Psalm 91; Daniel 12:1).

Enjoy Fellowship While it Lasts

Many times we do not realize what a blessing it is to be able to gather in full
freedom to worship as God’s corporate people. Let us enjoy fellowship now not
forsaking the assembling together because in the time of trouble we will have
to stand alone.

“The people of God are not at this time all in one place. They are in different
companies and in all parts of the earth; and they will be tried singly, not in groups.
Everyone must stand the test for himself.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 260

“The faith of individual members of the church will be tested as though there
were not another person in the world.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 260

Let us learn the lessons of Psalm 91 because this ‘tribulation psalm’ will bring
strength and comfort in the trying times ahead.




                                                                          Page 34 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


 Lesson #4 – Three Perspectives of the Last Three Plagues


Tips for the Study of the Last Three Plagues

When we study the last three plagues of Revelation 16 we must not only study
them individually but also look at the broader picture, how they fit together.
Do not merely consider each plague as isolated from the rest but rather how
they flow. By way of example, when we study the Elijah passages in Scripture
we must not only consider Elijah but how the details of the entire story fit
together including Baal, Jezebel, Ahab, and the false prophets.

When we study the last three plagues we must also make sure that we take into
account all the details of the Old Testament root stories because they are
fundamental to the typological application.

When you search for Ellen White’s understanding of the last three plagues, do
not assume that she will quote the verses that refer to them or even that she
will use the biblical terminology. Ellen White frequently refers to biblical
passages without using the specific words that are found in the passage.




                                                                          Page 35 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Learn to ask questions of the passage. For example, ask the question: Why
does Revelation 15:2-4 say that the 144,000 will sing the Song of Moses and the
Lamb after they come forth victoriously from the great tribulation? What does
the final deliverance have to do with Moses? Is it possible that the final
deliverance will follow the same pattern as the deliverance of Israel at the
Exodus?
Return to Pre-Creation Chaos

Revelation 16 describes seven devastating plagues that will fall upon the
wicked on planet earth after the door of human probation closes (Revelation
15:5-8). These plagues will, to a great degree, return the earth to the condition
it was in before creation week—without form, void, in darkness and without
inhabitants (Jeremiah 4:19-27).

In this lesson we will consider the subject of the last three plagues from three
different perspectives and look for parallels in the thematic structure. Here
are the three perspectives:

    Revelation 16:10-21
    Exodus 14 and 15
    The Great Controversy, pp. 635-637


Perspective #1: The Last Three Plagues in Revelation 16:10-21

The Fifth Plague

Revelation 16:10, 11

“Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his
kingdom became full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues because of the
pain. They blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores,
and did not repent of their deeds.”


                                                                          Page 36 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The central components in the fifth plague are:

    The throne of the beast.
    The kingdom of the beast.
    The darkness on the kingdom of the beast.
    The sores and gnawing of tongue.

The beast under the sixth plague is the same as the beast of Revelation 13 and
the little horn of Daniel 7 that spoke blasphemies against the Most High,
persecuted the saints of the Most High, thought it could change times and law
and ruled for 1260 years. The beast is a symbol of the Roman Catholic Papacy.
The throne is the center of government from where the beast rules. In other
words, this plague falls on the governing See of the beast. The papacy’s center
of power is in Vatican City within the confines of the ancient city of Rome.
The beast’s kingdom is composed those who support it globally. The following
verses describe the global nature of the beast’s kingdom:
Revelation 13:3
“And I saw one of his [the beast’s] heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and
his deadly wound was healed. And all the world marveled and followed the
beast.”
Revelation 13:7
“It was granted to him [the beast] to make war with the saints and to overcome
them. And authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and nation.”
Revelation 17:1, 2
“Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked with me,
saying to me, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on
many waters, 2 with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and the
inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication."

                                                                          Page 37 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 17:15
“Then he said to me: "The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, [sitting
refers to rulership] are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues.”
In these verses there is a clear distinction between the ruling authority of the
beast and his kingdom which is composed of peoples, multitudes, nations and
tongues.
The darkness that afflicts the throne of the beast and his kingdom is
supernatural and global. When the darkness falls upon the throne of the beast
system, those who belong to it gnaw their tongues in pain. Even further, God
sends upon them a panic that leads them to kill one another with the weapons
they intended on using to destroy God’s people.
Zachariah 14:12, 13
“And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the people who
fought against Jerusalem. Their flesh shall dissolve while they stand on their
feet, their eyes shall dissolve in their sockets, and their tongues shall dissolve in
their mouths. It shall come to pass in that day that a great panic from the LORD
will be among them. Everyone will seize the hand of his neighbor, and raise his
hand against his neighbor's hand.”
The expression ‘and they did not repent of their deeds’ indicates that those who
belong to the kingdom of the beast are beyond repentance because their
decision is set in stone.

The Sixth Plague
Revelation 16:12, 16

“Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its
water was dried up, so that the way of the kings from the east might be



                                                                          Page 38 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
prepared. . . And they gathered them together to the place called in Hebrew,
Armageddon.”

Central elements:

    The River Euphrates.
    The drying up of the waters.
    The kings from the east.
    The gathering.
    The place called Armageddon.

Important Questions about the sixth plague:

    What is the symbolic meaning of the great river Euphrates? (hint: Isaiah
      8:7, 8; 17:12, 13; Revelation 17:15)
    What is the symbolic meaning of the drying up of the waters of the river?
    Who are the kings from the east (literally, from ‘the rising sun’)?
    How is the way prepared for the arrival of the kings?
    Where is the gathering place called Armageddon?

The Old Testament background

In order to answer these questions, we must go to the Old Testament root
prophecy, the story of the fall of ancient Babylon. The Old Testament
describes this story in Daniel 5, Jeremiah 50 and 51 and Isaiah 41 as well as in
the descriptions given by secular historians Xenophon and Herodotus. Here
is the composite picture when we put all the evidence together:

    Babylon sat upon the many waters of the Euphrates river (Jeremiah
     51:12, 13)




                                                                          Page 39 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   Although the Euphrates river was Babylon’s greatest source of security,
    it was also its greatest potential liability.
   On the night of its fall, Babylon was practicing idolatry, false worship
    and drinking wine in holy vessels (Daniel 5).
   Cyrus came with his armies from the north and east and surrounded the
    city.
   Cyrus came with many kings
   The Medo-Persian troops dried up the riverbed of the Euphrates
    diverting it to channels that had been built outside the city.
   In their drunken stupor, Belshazzar and his courtiers left open the great
    brass gates that protected the city.
   The drying up of the waters prepared the way for Cyrus and his armies
    to enter the city unopposed.
   Cyrus and his armies on horses entered the city through the dry
    riverbed and Babylon fell.
   Cyrus then delivered God’s people so that they could go back to
    Jerusalem.
This entire scenario is applied symbolically and globally in Revelation 17. At
this point we will only consider some of the details of Revelation 17.

Questions about Revelation 17

   Which of the seven plague angels came back to speak with John in
      Revelation 17:1?
   What does a harlot represent in Scripture (Ezekiel 16 and 23)?
   What is the name of the harlot woman?
   What are the waters upon which the harlot sits?


                                                                          Page 40 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    What will the kings and waters end up doing to the harlot?

Revelation 17:1-5, 15, 16

“Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls [which of the seven?]
came and talked with me, saying to me, "Come, I will show you the judgment
[condemnation] of the great harlot [the papacy] who sits on many waters
[the Euphrates], 2 with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication [she
had the rulers impose her agenda], and the inhabitants of the earth were made
drunk with the wine of her fornication [her false doctrines]." 3 So he carried me
away in the Spirit into the wilderness. And I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet
beast which was full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. 4
The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and
precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations
and the filthiness of her fornication. 5 And on her forehead a name was written:
MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT [her name is Babylon so she must be seated
on the waters of the Euphrates], THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS [so she must have
daughters] AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. . . 15 Then he said to
me, "The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples, multitudes,
nations, and tongues. 16 And the ten horns which you saw on the beast, these will
hate the harlot [her supporters will turn against her], make her desolate and
naked, eat her flesh and burn her with fire. 17 For God has put it into their hearts
to fulfill His purpose, to be of one mind [all on the same page to destroy God’s
people], and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are
fulfilled [when God says ‘it is done’ at the seventh plague].”

The Seventh Plague

Revelation 16:17-21

“Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came
out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, "It is done!" [GC 635] 18 And
there were noises and thunderings and lightnings; and there was a great


                                                                          Page 41 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
earthquake, such a mighty and great earthquake as had not occurred since men
were on the earth. 19 Now the great city [Babylon] was divided into three parts
[three parts are in Revelation 16:13] before this the three parts had been
united], and the cities of the nations fell. And great Babylon was remembered
[reckoning day has come] before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the
fierceness of His wrath [same words in the third angel’s message and
Revelation 19:15]. 20 Then every island fled away, and the mountains were not
found [predicted at the end of the sixth seal in Revelation 6:14-16 and also
in Revelation 20:11] 21 And great hail from heaven fell upon men, each hailstone
about the weight of a talent. Men blasphemed God because of the plague of the
hail, since that plague was exceedingly great.”

The central themes of the seventh plague are God’s voice saying ‘it is done’
followed by an earthquake, thunder, lightning, terrific precipitation and
the disappearance of mountain ranges and islands. We shall see in a future
study that Revelation 19:11-21 expands upon the seventh plague. In fact, the
seventh plague is the battle or Armageddon where Christ and the armies of
heaven come from the north and the east on horses to defeat Babylon and
deliver God’s people.

Perspective #2: The Background of Exodus 14, 15

As we saw in perspective #1, the fall of Babylon in the days of Belshazzar is in
the background of the fifth, sixth and seventh plagues. However, I want to
suggest that there is another story in the Old Testament that also stands in the
background—the story of the Exodus of Israel from Egypt. We know that
there is a connection because the 144,000 will sing the Song of Moses and the
Lamb which points back to the Song of Moses in Exodus 15. So let us review the
entire story of the Exodus to see the connection.




                                                                          Page 42 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Captivity

Israel was in bondage in Egypt (Exodus 2:23-25) to the great dragon—
Pharaoh (Ezekiel 29:3). God promised to deliver them (Exodus 3:7, 8) and in
order to accomplish His purpose, God sent plagues to persuade Pharaoh to let
His people go. With each plague God was saying to Pharaoh, “Let my people
go” (Exodus 8:1). However, instead of heeding the message, each plague further
increased Pharaoh’s animosity and anger against God in the person of His
people.

The Sabbath

Israel’s captivity was made more difficult when they tried to keep the
Sabbath:

Exodus 5:4, 5

“Then the king of Egypt said to them, "Moses and Aaron, why do you take the
people from their work? Get back to your labor." 5 And Pharaoh said, "Look, the
people of the land are many now, and you make them rest [Shabbat] from their
labor!"

Right after quoting Exodus 5:4, 5 Ellen White explained:

“In their bondage the Israelites had to some extent lost the knowledge of God's
law, and they had departed from its precepts. The Sabbath had been generally
disregarded, and the exactions of their taskmasters made its observance
apparently impossible. But Moses had shown his people that obedience to God
was the first condition of deliverance; and the efforts made to restore the
observance of the Sabbath had come to the notice of their oppressors.” Ellen G.
White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 258
When God’s people came out of Egypt, the crescendo of Pharaoh’s rage
reached its peak and he made one last attempt to recover the subjects that he
had lost. The people must submit to Pharaoh’s authority or be killed.


                                                                          Page 43 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Shut In and No Escape

Pharaoh hedged the Israelites in and there appeared to be no escape. The
people feared that the armies of Pharaoh would kill them. We know this
because they complained that Moses had taken them out into the wilderness to
perish (Exodus 14:12). The location of the crossing was most likely at the Gulf
of Akaba in the extreme north end of the Red Sea.

Exodus 14:3

“For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, 'They are bewildered by the land;
the wilderness has closed them in.”

Ellen White described the location:

“The Hebrews were encamped beside the sea, whose waters presented a seemingly
impassable barrier before them, while on the south a rugged mountain
obstructed their further progress.” Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 283,
284

Pharaoh Prepares for Battle

Pharaoh filled with wrath because Israel escaped prepared his armies for
battle. There appeared to be no escape and no hope—Israel was defenseless!

Exodus 14:5-9

“Now it was told the king of Egypt that the people had fled, and the heart of
Pharaoh and his servants was turned against the people; and they said, "Why
have we done this, that we have let Israel go from serving us?" 6 So he made ready
his chariot and took his people with him. 7 Also, he took six hundred choice
chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt with captains over every one of them. 8
And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued
the children of Israel; and the children of Israel went out with boldness. 9 So the
Egyptians pursued them, all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen


                                                                          Page 44 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and his army, and overtook them camping by the sea beside Pi Hahiroth, before
Baal Zephon.”

The Time of Trouble

A horrific time of trouble ensued and the people cried out to God for
deliverance from their enemies:

Exodus 14:10

“And when Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted their eyes, and behold,
the Egyptians marched after them. So they were very afraid, and the children of
Israel cried out to the LORD.”

The Lord Promised to Fight for Israel

The battle was not Israel’s. It was the battle of the LORD God Almighty. In fact,
the LORD promised to fight for Israel, and He just asked them to trust in Him—
this is righteousness in verity!

Exodus 14:13, 14

“And Moses said to the people, "Do not be afraid. Stand still, and see the salvation
of the LORD, which He will accomplish for you today. For the Egyptians whom you
see today, you shall see again no more forever. 14 The LORD will fight for you,
and you shall hold your peace.”

When all appeared to be lost, the LORD dried up or divided the waters of the
Red Sea. As long as the waters were ‘united’ they were a menace to God’s
people. However, if they were divided or dried up the people would be
delivered.

Exodus 14:16, 21

“But lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it. And the
children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. 21 Then


                                                                          Page 45 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go back
by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea into dry land, and the
waters were divided.”

The Fifth Plague: Light and Darkness

When the Egyptian armies were about to pounce upon God’s people, the pillar
of cloud moved between them and there was darkness for the Egyptians but
noonday light for Israel:

Exodus 14:19, 20

“And the Angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel, moved and went
behind them; and the pillar of cloud went from before them and stood behind
them. 20 So it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel.
Thus it was a cloud and darkness to the one, and it gave light by night to the
other, so that the one did not come near the other all that night.”

Ellen White described the situation:

“But now, as the Egyptian host approached them expecting to make them an easy
prey, the cloudy column rose majestically into the heavens, passed over the
Israelites, and descended between them and the armies of Egypt. A wall of
darkness interposed between the pursued and their pursuers. The Egyptians
could no longer discern the camp of the Hebrews, and were forced to halt. But
as the darkness of night deepened, the wall of cloud became a great light to the
Hebrews, flooding the entire encampment with the radiance of day. Ellen G.
White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 286, 287

God Takes the Battlefield

As the sun was about to rise God took the battlefield on behalf of Israel.
Confusion and panic suddenly overtook the armies of the Egyptians and they
began to flee. In fighting the people of God, the Egyptians were fighting the God
of the people. This was the battle of the LORD God Almighty!

                                                                          Page 46 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Exodus 14:24, 25

“Now it came to pass, in the morning watch, that the LORD looked down upon
the army of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and cloud, and He troubled
the army of the Egyptians. 25 And He took off their chariot wheels, so that they
drove them with difficulty; and the Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the face of
Israel, for the LORD fights for them against the Egyptians."

The Sixth Plague: The Waters Dry Up or are Divided

As the Egyptian armies began to retreat, Moses extended his rod and the waters
of the Red Sea dried up or were divided to prepare the way for the escape of
God’s people. Up to this point the waters had been a menace to God’s people. As
long as the waters were united there was no escape:

Exodus 14:16, 21

“But lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it. And
the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. 21 Then
Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go back
by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea into dry land, and the
waters were divided.”

After God dried up or divided the waters, the waters became inimical to the
Egyptians. God dried up the waters and then turned them against the Egyptians:

Exodus 14:25-31

“Then the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the sea that the
waters may come back upon the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their
horsemen." 27 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and when the
morning appeared [at the sun rising], the sea returned to its full depth, while
the Egyptians were fleeing into it. So the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the
midst of the sea. 28 Then the waters returned and covered the chariots, the
horsemen, and all the army of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them. Not so

                                                                          Page 47 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
much as one of them remained. 29 But the children of Israel had walked on dry
land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right
hand and on their left. 30 So the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of
the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. 31 Thus Israel
saw the great work which the LORD had done in Egypt; so the people feared
the LORD, and believed the LORD and His servant Moses.”

The Seventh Plague: Natural Calamities

Spectacular ‘natural phenomena’ occurred when God delivered His people at
the Red Sea. The book of Exodus does not record these phenomena but the book
of Psalms does:

Psalm 77:15-20

“You have with Your arm redeemed Your people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. 16
The waters saw You, O God; the waters saw You, they were afraid; the depths
also trembled. 17 The clouds poured out water; the skies sent out a sound; your
arrows also flashed about. 18 The voice of Your thunder was in the whirlwind;
the lightnings lit up the world; the earth trembled and shook. 19 Your way was
in the sea, your path in the great waters, and Your footsteps were not known. 20
You led Your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.”

It is no coincidence that deliverance came at the sun rising:

Exodus 14:24, 27

“Now it came to pass, in the morning watch, that the LORD looked down upon
the army of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and cloud, and He troubled
the army of the Egyptians. 27 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and
when the morning appeared, the sea returned to its full depth, while the
Egyptians were fleeing into it. So the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst
of the sea.”



                                                                          Page 48 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Every single one of the Egyptians perished:

Exodus 14:28

“Then the waters returned and covered the chariots, the horsemen, and all the
army of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them. Not so much as one of them
remained.”

After God delivered His people, they shouted out the Song of Moses, the song
of victory:

Exodus 15:1-18

“Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to the LORD, and spoke,
saying: "I will sing to the LORD for He has triumphed gloriously! The horse and
its rider He has thrown into the sea! " 2 The LORD is my strength and song and
He has become my salvation; He is my God, and I will praise Him; my father's
God, and I will exalt Him. 3 The LORD is a man of war; the LORD is His name. 4
Pharaoh's chariots and his army He has cast into the sea; his chosen captains
also are drowned in the Red Sea. 5 The depths have covered them; they sank to the
bottom like a stone. 6 "Your right hand, O LORD, has become glorious in power;
your right hand, O LORD, has dashed the enemy in pieces. 7 And in the greatness
of Your excellence, You have overthrown those who rose against You; You sent
forth Your wrath; it consumed them like stubble. 8 And with the blast of Your
nostrils the waters were gathered together; the floods stood upright like a heap;
the depths congealed in the heart of the sea. 9 The enemy said, 'I will pursue, I
will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my desire shall be satisfied on them. I will
draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.' 10 You blew with Your wind, the
sea covered them; they sank like lead in the mighty waters. 11 Who is like You, O
LORD, among the gods? Who is like You, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises,
doing wonders? 12 You stretched out Your right hand; the earth swallowed them.
13 You in Your mercy have led forth the people whom You have redeemed; You

have guided them in Your strength to Your holy habitation. 14 "The people will
hear and be afraid; sorrow will take hold of the inhabitants of Philistia. 15 Then

                                                                          Page 49 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the chiefs of Edom will be dismayed; the mighty men of Moab, trembling will take
hold of them; all the inhabitants of Canaan will melt away. 16 Fear and dread will
fall on them; by the greatness of Your arm they will be as still as a stone, till Your
people pass over, O LORD, till the people pass over whom You have purchased.”

God then promised to take His people to the Mountain of His Inheritance:

Exodus 15:17, 18

“You will bring them in and plant them in the mountain of Your inheritance
[Zion], in the place, O LORD, which You have made for Your own dwelling, the
sanctuary, O LORD, which Your hands have established. 18 The LORD shall reign
forever and ever.”

Pharaoh came to realize too late, that in fighting the people of God he was
fighting the God of the people. The protecting care of God must be understood
within a covenant context. When God’s people are in a covenant relationship
with the Lord, the Lord protects them from annihilation! When Saul of Tarsus
persecuted the church he was persecuting the Lord. Jesus said to Saul: ‘Why are
you persecuting me?’

A Vital Prophetic Principle

Literal Israel was literally captive in literal Egypt, to literal Pharaoh. God
raised up a literal person (Moses) to lead God’s literal people out. Literal
Israel was literally closed in at the edge of the literal sea. The literal waters
were divided or dried up by Moses’ literal rod and then the waters literally
avalanched themselves upon the enemies to deliver literal Israel. Literal Israel
then sang the song of their deliverance and God took them to the literal
mountain of God’s inheritance—Mt. Zion.

All of this will transpire once more under the seven last plagues with spiritual
Israel on a global scale.



                                                                          Page 50 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Perspective #3: Ellen White’s Interpretation

Ellen White’s Methodology

It is common for Ellen White to refer to biblical events without actually quoting
the verses that describe the event. In The Great Controversy, Ellen White does
not quote the verses that describe the fifth and sixth plagues. Rather, she
interprets the symbols in matter of fact language and follows the same literary
sequence. Let’s notice an example from Revelation 4 and 5: As I have shown
in the series on the 24 elders, these chapters contain several symbols:

      One seated on the throne (not identified by name)
      Four living creatures (presented in symbolic terms)
      24 elders (symbolic language)
      Seven lamps of fire (symbolic language)
      Lamb as though it had been slain (symbolic language)
In The Desire of Ages, pp. 833-835 Ellen White interprets the symbolic
language of Revelation 4 and 5 without actually quoting the specific verses:

      She identifies the One on the throne as the God the Father.
      She explains that the four living creatures are cherubim and seraphim.
      The 24 elders are the representatives of the worlds that never sinned.
      The seven lamps of fire represent the Holy Spirit.
      The Lamb as though it had been slain is Jesus Christ.
We find another example in Daniel 11:40-45. Ellen White never quoted these
verses or even alludes to the language in them. Yet, as I have shown in another
place (see ‘Daniel 11:40-45 and the Final Crisis’) she comments on this passage
in The Great Controversy without using the terminology.

Let’s notice now how Ellen White interprets the fifth, sixth and seventh plagues
in matter of fact language. Although she quotes verses from the seventh plague
she does not quote any verses for the fifth and sixth. I have added my own
explanatory remarks in brackets:

                                                                          Page 51 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Fifth and Sixth Plagues in The Great Controversy, p. 635:

“When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor
the law of God, there will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for
their destruction [similar to Pharaoh who gathers his armies to attack
Israel]. As the time appointed in the decree [Revelation 13:15; Esther 3:8]
draws near, the people will conspire to root out the hated sect. It will be
determined to strike in one night a decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the
voice of dissent and reproof.

The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the
forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection [like Israel did at
the edge of the Red Sea], while in every quarter companies of armed men,
urged on by hosts of evil angels are preparing for the work of death [Pharaoh
and his armies come and there is no escape]. It is now, in the hour of utmost
extremity that the God of Israel [notice the allusion to ancient Israel] will
interpose for the deliverance of His chosen [like at the edge of the Red Sea].

With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush [the Euphrates is at flood stage: See the meaning of the word rush in
Isaiah 17:12, 13 and 8:7, 8] upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper
than the darkness of the night, falls upon the earth [the fifth plague of
darkness]. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the throne of God,
spans the heavens and seems to encircle each praying company [light for God’s
people]. The angry multitudes [symbolically represented as the ‘waters’
upon which the harlot sits] are suddenly arrested [the waters of the
Euphrates are dried up]. Their mocking cries die away. The objects of their
murderous rage are forgotten [God’s people are no longer in jeopardy after
the fifth plague]. With fearful forebodings they gaze upon the symbol of God's
covenant [the covenant that protects God’s people] and long to be shielded
from its overpowering brightness. . .




                                                                          Page 52 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the next chapter (‘The Desolation of the Earth’) Ellen White comes back to
describe this climactic moment of the sixth plague but adds some very
important details:

“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having
led them to destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation
upon the ministers [the leaders of the harlot and her daughters]. Unfaithful
pastors have prophesied smooth things [this is why the fifth plague afflicts
the tongue]; they have led their hearers to make void the law of God and to
persecute those who would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers
confess before the world their work of deception. The multitudes [the waters of
the Red Sea and the Euphrates] are filled with fury [they withdraw their
support and then avalanche themselves against the apostate system]. "We
are lost!" they cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the
false shepherds [the waters now drown their religious leaders]. The very
ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful curses
upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be raised for
their destruction. The swords which were to slay God's people are now
employed to destroy their enemies [Zechariah 14:12, 13 is fulfilled when the
swords turn upon the religious leaders]. Everywhere there is strife and
bloodshed. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 655, 656

"And this shall be the plague wherewith the Lord will smite all the people that
have fought against Jerusalem; Their flesh shall consume away while they stand
upon their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their holes, and their tongue
shall consume away in their mouth. And it shall come to pass in that day, that a
great tumult from the Lord shall be among them; and they shall lay hold everyone
on the hand of his neighbor and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his
neighbor." Zechariah 14:12, 13. In the mad strife of their own fierce passions,
and by the awful outpouring of God's unmingled wrath, fall the wicked
inhabitants of the earth--priests, rulers, and people, rich and poor, high and low.
"And the slain of the Lord shall be at that day from one end of the earth even unto


                                                                          Page 53 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the other end of the earth: they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor
buried." Jeremiah 25:33.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 657

We know that we are on the right track because at the bottom of page 636 and
the top of page 637 Ellen White comments on the seventh plague and actually
quotes verses:

“In the midst of the angry heavens is one clear space of indescribable glory,
whence comes the voice of God like the sound of many waters, saying: "It is done."
Revelation 16:17 [the seventh plague].

That voice shakes the heavens and the earth. There is a mighty earthquake,
"such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so
great" Verses 17, 18. The firmament appears to open and shut. The glory from the
throne of God seems flashing through. The mountains shake like a reed in the
wind, and ragged rocks are scattered on every side. There is a roar as of a coming
tempest. The sea is lashed into fury. There is heard the shriek of a hurricane like
the voice of demons upon a mission of destruction. The whole earth heaves and
swells like the waves of the sea. Its surface is breaking up. Its very foundations
seem to be giving way. Mountain chains are sinking. Inhabited islands
disappear. The seaports that have become like Sodom for wickedness are
swallowed up by the angry waters. Babylon the great has come in remembrance
before God, "to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of His wrath."
Great hailstones, every one "about the weight of a talent," are doing their work
of destruction.” Revelation 16:19, 21 [the seventh plague]

In The Great Controversy, pp. 648, 649 then explains that the 144,000 will sing
the Song of Moses and the Lamb, the song of their deliverance from end time
spiritual Babylon.

The Litmus Test

The final and most important question: What will determine whose side we
are on in this great final battle? Revelation 16:15, in the middle of the

                                                                          Page 54 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Armageddon message, has the answer. In our final lesson we will dedicate and
entire class to this verse.

Revelation 16:15

"Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his
garments lest he walk naked and they see his shame."

Revelation 3:18-19

“I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined in the fire, that you may be rich; and
white garments, that you may be clothed, that the shame of your nakedness
may not be revealed; and anoint your eyes with eye salve, that you may see.”




                                                                          Page 55 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                          Page 56 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


     Lesson #5 – The Last Three Plagues of Revelation 16



The Old Testament Background

   The Exodus from Egypt
   The fall of Belshazzar’s Babylon

The Flow of the Last Three Plagues

   Probation has closed (Revelation 15:1, 5-8)
   The first four plagues infuriate the wicked against God’s people.
   The fifth plague of darkness falls upon the kingdom of the beast but upon
    God’s people there is light.
   The multitudes ‘dry up’ on their religious leaders and avalanche
    themselves against them.
   The seventh plague includes thunder, lightning, and an earthquake.
   The first four are jeopardy plagues and the last three are deliverance
    plagues.




                                                                          Page 57 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Armageddon Passage

Revelation 16:12-16

“Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its
water was dried up, so that the way of the kings from the east might be
prepared. 13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth
of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false
prophet. 14 For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the
kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that
great day of God Almighty. 15 "Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who
watches, and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame." 16
And they [the threefold union instigated by the evil spirits] gathered them
together to the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon.”

Questions

    What is represented by the Great River Euphrates?
    What is meant by its drying up?
    What is the purpose of gathering the kings of the earth and the whole
     world?
    Who are the kings that come from the east?
    Who are the dragon, the beast and the false prophet?
    Who are the three evil spirits like frogs?
    Where is Armageddon located?

Background of Ancient Babylon

Ancient Babylon was seated upon the waters of the Great River Euphrates so
the waters upon which the harlot sits are the waters of the Euphrates. However,
this is not a literal harlot or a literal river. The harlot represents an apostate
church and the waters represent multitudes, nations, tongues and people.



                                                                          Page 58 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Babylon was very confident that she was invincible (Isaiah 47:7-10; see also
1 Thessalonians 5:2, 3). She was so confident, that on the night of her fall, while
the armies of the Medes and Persians had the city surrounded, King Belshazzar
was having a party! (Daniel 5)

The main source of Babylon’s security was her river that flowed right through
the center of the city:

Jeremiah 51:12, 13

“Set up the standard on the walls of Babylon; make the guard strong, set up the
watchmen, prepare the ambushes. For the Lord has both devised and done what
He spoke against the inhabitants of Babylon. 13 O you who dwell by many waters,
abundant in treasures, your end has come, the measure of your covetousness.”

The city had three walls and great gates of bronze that reached to the bottom
of the river:

Isaiah 45:2

“I will go before you [before Cyrus] and make the crooked places straight; I will
break in pieces the gates of bronze and cut the bars of iron.”

Babylon gave her wine to the nations and they became mad:

Jeremiah 51:7

“Babylon was a golden cup in the Lord's hand, that made all the earth drunk. The
nations drank her wine; therefore, the nations are deranged.”

When Belshazzar drank the wine his was not able to distinguish between the
holy and the common and he practiced false worship and idolatry:

Daniel 5:1

“Belshazzar the king made a great feast for a thousand of his lords, and drank
wine in the presence of the thousand. 2 While he tasted the wine, Belshazzar


                                                                          Page 59 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
gave the command to bring the gold and silver vessels which his father
Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple which had been in Jerusalem, that
the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them. 3
Then they brought the gold vessels that had been taken from the temple of the
house of God which had been in Jerusalem; and the king and his lords, his wives,
and his concubines drank from them. 4 They drank wine, and praised the gods
of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone.”

God promised that He would send plagues upon Babylon and use the weapons
of His indignation against her

Jeremiah 50:13

“Because of the wrath of the Lord she shall not be inhabited, but she shall be
wholly desolate. Everyone who goes by Babylon shall be horrified and hiss at all
her plagues.”

Jeremiah 50:25

“The Lord has opened His armory, and has brought out the weapons of His
indignation; for this is the work of the Lord God of hosts in the land of the
Chaldeans.”

God called His people to flee or come out from Babylon before she met her fate

Jeremiah 50:6-8, 28, 51:45

"Move from the midst of Babylon, go out of the land of the Chaldeans; and be
like the rams before the flocks. 9 For behold, I will raise and cause to come up
against Babylon an assembly of great nations from the north country, and they
shall array themselves against her; from there she shall be captured. Their arrows
shall be like those of an expert warrior; none shall return in vain. 10 And Chaldea
shall become plunder; all who plunder her shall be satisfied," says the Lord. . .
The voice of those who flee and escape from the land of Babylon declares in Zion
the vengeance of the Lord our God, the vengeance of His temple. . . My people,


                                                                          Page 60 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
go out of the midst of her! and let everyone deliver himself from the fierce anger
of the Lord.”

Cyrus and his Armies

Babylon was seated upon the many waters of the Euphrates river. As long as
the river flowed, Babylon was secure (Jeremiah 51:12, 13). In the Bible, Babylon
is the enemy of God’s people par excellence. Babylon had God’s people in
bondage and mistreated them (Jeremiah 50:33, 17; 51:24). God used Cyrus to
destroy Babylon and deliver His people (Isaiah 44:26).

Notably, the name ‘Cyrus’ means ‘sun’. God referred to Cyrus as His shepherd
(Isaiah 44:28) and His messiah or anointed (Isaiah 45:1). God called him in
righteousness to let the captives go back to Jerusalem (Isaiah 45:13). Cyrus
came from a far country (Isaiah 46:11) against Babylon from the north and
the east (Isaiah 41:2, 25; 46:11). He did not come against Babylon alone but
rather with a coalition of armies (Jeremiah 51:11, 28)

Cyrus dried up the waters of the Euphrates River, Babylon fell and God’s people
were delivered:

Jeremiah 50: 38

“A drought is against her waters, and they will be dried up. For it is the land of
carved images, and they are insane with their idols.”

Jeremiah 51:36

Therefore, thus says the Lord: "Behold, I will plead your case and take vengeance
for you. I will dry up her sea and make her springs dry.”

Isaiah 44:27, 28

“Who says to the deep, 'Be dry! and I will dry up your rivers'; 28 Who says of
Cyrus, 'He is My shepherd, and he shall perform all My pleasure, saying to
Jerusalem, ‘You shall be built,’ and to the temple, ‘Your foundation shall be laid.’”

                                                                          Page 61 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
We have three primary and two secondary sources that describe the fateful
night that Babylon fell. The primary sources are Daniel 5, the Nabonidus
Chronicle and the Cyrus Cylinder the two secondary sources are the Greek
historians Xenophon and Herodotus. Remarkably all of these sources are in
agreement about the events that led up to the fall. All agree that Babylon was
taken without a struggle and that the population welcomed Cyrus with open
arms. The Greek historians are the only ones who directly explain how the city
fell although the Bible strongly alludes to it. The Greek historians agree that
Cyrus dried up the riverbed of the Euphrates and this led to the fall of the city.

The prophet Jeremiah tells us repeatedly that the great sin of Babylon was that
she mistreated and persecuted God’s people (Jeremiah 51:34-36; 51:49; 50:33,
34).

It is a paradox that Jeremiah wrote about the rivers of Babylon drying up and
then turned right around and predicted that she would be drowned by her
own river.

Jeremiah 51:42, 63, 64

“The sea has come up over Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of its
waves. Now it shall be, when you have finished reading this book, that you shall
tie a stone to it and throw it out into the Euphrates. 64 Then you shall say, 'Thus
Babylon shall sink and not rise from the catastrophe that I will bring upon her.
And they shall be weary.'"

Thus, Babylon would be paid back for the payment she meted out:

Jeremiah 50:29

"Call together the archers against Babylon. All you who bend the bow, encamp
against it all around; let none of them escape. Repay her according to her work;
according to all she has done, do to her; for she has been proud against the Lord,
against the Holy One of Israel.”


                                                                          Page 62 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Daniel 5 describes the last night of Babylon and the reason for its fall. This
chapter provides gives details that the Greek historians could not. We discover
that the fall of Babylon was due to its sins and that God decreed its fall. The king
drank wine and gave it to one thousand of the VIP’s in the kingdom (5:1, 3). The
wine did not allow the king to distinguish between the holy and the common
(5:2) and therefore he practiced idolatry (5:4). A handwriting on the wall
announced the close of probation for Babylon (5:24-28) and that very night
Cyrus dried up its river and the city fell to the Medes and Persians (5:31).

A Parenthetical Statement

Revelation 16:12

“Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates [Babylon’s
river], and its water [multitudes, nations, tongues and people] was dried up
[withdraw their support from Babylon], so that the way of the kings from the
east [Jesus and His angels—picked up in Revelation 19:11-21] might be
prepared [before Jesus comes He must unmask the religious leaders].”

Revelation 16:12 portrays moment of the sixth plague after the close of
probation when the persecuting waters (multitudes, nations, tongues and
people) of Babylon withdraw their support and then drown her.

However, verses 13 and 14 are parenthetical and take us back to the last
remnant of probationary time. During this short period, three evil angels are
gathering the wicked world to Satan’s side with the purpose of drowning God’s
people. At the same time, three holy angels are gathering God’s people on the
Lord’s side.

Revelation 16:13, 14

“And I saw three unclean spirits [three evil angels] like frogs coming out of the
mouth of the dragon [the secular powers of the world], out of the mouth of the
beast [the papacy], and out of the mouth of the false prophet [apostate
Protestantism]. 14 For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go

                                                                          Page 63 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
out to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the
battle [against God in the person of His witnesses] of that great day of God
Almighty [for the battle of Armageddon].”

The Gathering of the Righteous                 The Gathering of the Wicked
Three holy angels gather righteous             Three evil angels gather wicked

The righteous follow the lamb                  The wicked follow the beast

The righteous worship God                      The wicked worship the beast

The righteous gather to Jerusalem              The wicked gather to Babylon

The righteous receive the seal of God          The wicked receive the mark of the
beast

The Spirit of Prophecy confirms that the gathering of the wicked in Revelation
16:13, 14 occurs before the close of probation:

“The present is a solemn, fearful time for the church. The angels are already
girded, awaiting the mandate of God to pour their vials of wrath upon the world.
Destroying angels are taking up the work of vengeance for the Spirit of God is
gradually withdrawing from the world. Satan is also mustering his forces of evil,
going forth ‘unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world,’ to gather them
under his banner, to be trained for ‘the battle of that great day of God Almighty.’”
Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 983

Revelation 16:15 is a parenthetical statement that encourages God’s people,
during the gathering time’ to prepare for the close of probation and to gather
on God’s side in the final battle:

"Behold, I am coming as a [1] thief. Blessed is he who [2] watches, and [3] keeps
his [4] garments, lest he [5] walk naked and they see [6] his shame."

This warning would be fruitless after the close of probation because by then all
cases will have been decided. The ESV puts this verse in parentheses indicating

                                                                          Page 64 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
that it breaks the flow of the previous verses. The context proves that the ESV
is correct. You will notice that verse 14 ends with the word ‘gather’ and verse
16 picks up with the word ‘gather’. The expression ‘they gathered them’ refers
to the three counterfeit angels that gathering the kings of the earth and the
whole world on Satan’s side.

Let’s link Revelation 16:16 with Revelation 16:14 and skip verse 15:

“For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the
earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of
God Almighty . . . 16 And they gathered them together to the place called in
Hebrew, Armageddon:

A Counterfeit Godhead

Revelation 16:13 describes three powers that will play a role in end time
events:

   1. The Dragon (Revelation 12) represents the civil powers of the world:
       Some may wonder whether the dragon represents the political
        powers of the earth. Here is the evidence that the dragon represents
        Satan working through the political systems of the world.
       Revelation 12:4
         “And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth,
         to devour her Child as soon as it was born.”
         Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 438
         “Thus while the dragon, primarily, represents Satan, it is, in a secondary
         sense, a symbol of pagan Rome.”
       Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p.
        39



                                                                          Page 65 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
         “Kings and rulers and governors have placed upon themselves the
         brand of antichrist, and are represented as the dragon who goes to
         make war with the saints--with those who keep the commandments of
         God and who have the faith of Jesus.”


       Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 54
         “In the sixth century the papacy had become firmly established. Its seat
         of power was fixed in the imperial city, and the bishop of Rome was
         declared to be the head over the entire church. Paganism had given
         place to the papacy. The dragon had given to the beast “his power,
         and his seat, and great authority.” [Revelation 13:2].”
       Ezekiel 29:3
         "Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon that
         lies in the midst of his streams, that says, 'My Nile is my own; I made it
         for myself.'”
       In Revelation 19:19, 20 the coalition that opposes God is composed
        of the beast, the false prophet and the kings of the earth.
   2. The Beast (Revelation 13:1-10) represents the papacy.
   3. The false prophet (Revelation 13:11-18) represents apostate
      Protestantism in the United States.

The same threefold alliance is described in Revelation 17 as the kings, the
mother and the daughters (cf. the martyrdom of John the Baptist in Mark 6).

In Revelation the Godhead is described as triune (see Revelation 1:4, 5). At the
end of time, the triune Godhead sends three angels (Revelation 14:6-12) to
gather people from every nation, kindred, tongue and people on God’s side
wage a spiritual war against the powers of evil and to follow the Lamb
wherever He goes (Revelation 14:1, 4).


                                                                          Page 66 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The counterfeit godhead also has three entities and three unclean angels that
proclaim their message and they will, for a time, be perfectly united. The
unclean evil spirits come out of the mouth of the counterfeit godhead and the
mouth is used to speak (see 1 Timothy 4:1; Matthew 5:2; Revelation 13:5;
Daniel 7:8, 11, 20 and 25). The purpose of the three counterfeit messages is to
gather the entire world (Revelation 13:3) to follow and worship the beast
(Revelation 13:8, 16) and to war against God in the person of His witnesses:

“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist
among the Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and
variance. Yet under one head—the papal power—the people will unite to oppose
God in the person of His witnesses. This union is cemented by the great
apostate. While he seeks to unite his agents in warring against the truth he will
work to divide and scatter its advocates. Jealousy, evil surmising, evil speaking,
are instigated by him to produce discord and dissension. The members of
Christ's church have the power to thwart the purpose of the adversary of souls. At
such a time as this let them not be found at variance with one another or with
any of the Lord's workers. Amidst the general discord let there be one place
where harmony and unity exist because the Bible is made the guide of life.
Let the people of God feel that a responsibility rests upon them to build up His
instrumentalities.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 182
When the voice of God delivers His people, the wicked awaken from their stupor
and realize ‘that they have been fighting against God.’ Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 640
The multitudes of the world at this time will ask, who is like the beast? Who is
able to make war with him?" (Revelation 13:3, 4). God answers the question in
Daniel 12:1; Revelation 16:16; 17:14; 19:11ff.

The Link Between Revelation 6, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19

Revelation 6:16, 17: ‘wrath of the Lamb’

Revelation 6:17: ’the great day of His wrath’

                                                                          Page 67 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 11:18: ‘thy wrath has come’

Revelation 14:10: ‘shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured
out without mixture into the cup of his indignation’

Revelation 14:19: ‘gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great
winepress of the wrath of God.’

Revelation 15:1: ‘seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is
filled up the wrath of God.”

Revelation 15:7: ‘seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God.’

Revelation 16:1: ‘pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.”

Revelation 16:19: ‘great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give
unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.”

Revelation 17:14: (picked up in Revelation 19:15) “These shall make war with
the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King
of kings.’

Revelation 18:4: ‘Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her
sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.’

Revelation 18:8: ‘Therefore, shall her plagues come in one day.’

Revelation 19:15: ‘he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of
Almighty God.’

Joel 2:32; 3:9-12 and Revelation 14

Joel 2:32 describes the remnant in Mt. Zion

“And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be
saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be deliverance



                                                                          Page 68 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
[deliverance from what?], as the Lord has said, among the remnant whom the
Lord calls.”

Then in Joel 3:9-16 we see the nations surrounding Jerusalem in the winepress
with evil intentions:

“Proclaim this among the nations: "Prepare for war! Wake up the mighty men, let
all the men of war draw near, let them come up. 10 Beat your plowshares into
swords and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, 'I am strong.'" 11
Assemble and come, all you nations, and gather together all around
[Jerusalem]. Cause Your mighty ones to go down there, O Lord [God’s mighty
ones are His armies]. 12 "Let the nations be wakened, and come up to the Valley
of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge [Revelation 19:11, 12: Jesus judges
and makes war] all the surrounding nations. 13 Put in the sickle, for the harvest
is ripe. Come, go down; For the winepress is full, the vats overflow—For their
wickedness is great." 14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the
day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. 15 The sun and moon will grow
dark, and the stars will diminish their brightness. 16 The Lord also will roar from
Zion, and utter His voice from Jerusalem; the heavens and earth will shake; but
the Lord will be a shelter for His people, and the strength of the children of
Israel.”

Revelation 14:14-17 globalizes Joel 3:9-12. In the book of Joel, the winepress is
in the Valley of Jehoshaphat outside the literal city of Jerusalem. However, in
Revelation 14:14-20 the winepress outside the city is not merely in the valley
of Jehoshaphat but in the whole world (Revelation 16:1). Therefore, Jerusalem
where God’s people are gathered must also be a worldwide Jerusalem.

Revelation 14:14-18: The message of the three angels ripens the harvest and
the grapes for the harvest.

The horses that trample the winepress in Revelation 14:20 are later identified
in Revelation 19:11ff as Jesus and the angelic hosts who come to trample the


                                                                          Page 69 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
wicked in the winepress. The city of Jerusalem is global because Babylon is
global (Revelation 17:15).




                                                                          Page 70 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


     Lesson #6 - Decoding the Mysteries of Revelation 17


Introductory Matters

The book of Revelation is saturated with exotic imagery. This imagery, known
as apocalyptic, was part of the lingua franca of that day. In order to
comprehend this bizarre symbolism, we must walk in the shoes of the people
of that time. That is, we must understand the symbols as they did and not as
we would in the twenty-first century.

Revelation 17 is one of the most complex and intellectually challenging
chapters in the book of Revelation. It contains vivid symbols, mysterious
numbers and strange expressions. It is like a giant jigsaw puzzle with each
symbol being a piece of the puzzle. Before we can put the puzzle together we
must first carefully analyze the shape of each piece to see where it fits within
the puzzle as a whole. Fortunately for us, the first part of the vision (verses 1-
8) is explained in great detail by the interpreting angel in the second part
(verses 9-18).




                                                                          Page 71 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Signs and Wisdom

Revelation 1:1 tells us that the book of Revelation was signified to John. The
root word behind the verb ‘signified’ is ‘sign’. This indicates that the book of
Revelation was given to John in sign language and sign language is symbolic.
This means that the symbols must be decoded or deciphered in order to
ascertain the book’s message.

In order to understand the symbolic language of Revelation 17 we must have
wisdom (Revelation 17:9) and wisdom comes only from God (James 1:5). It is
not enough to study Revelation 17. We must pray that God will give us
supernatural wisdom from on high to understand it.

The Angel of Revelation 17

Revelation 16 describes seven angels who pour out the seven last plagues upon
the earth. The vision of Revelation 17 was given to John by one of those seven
angels who had the seven plagues (Revelation 17:1; 16:12). The question that
begs to be asked is: Which of the seven plague angels in Revelation 16 comes
back to speak with John in Revelation 17?

The answer to this question is not hard to find. The harlot of Revelation 17 is
described as a woman sitting upon many waters (17:1) and on her forehead is
found the inscription: “MYSTERY: BABYLON THE GREAT” (17:5). She is also
said to be that “great city which reigns over the kings of the earth.” (Revelation
17:18). That is to say, the ‘harlot’ and the ‘city’ are interchangeable terms. The
harlot represents the religious side of Babylon and the city represents its civil
side.

What was the name of the river that ran through the city of Babylon? The
answer to this question is provided by a geographical study of the region as well
as by Scripture. The ancient city of Babylon sat upon the many waters of the
river Euphrates (Jeremiah 51:12, 13). This means that we must look for the
bowl angel who refers to the river Euphrates and that bowl angel is the sixth

                                                                          Page 72 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
(Revelation 16:12). In other words, the angel who poured out the sixth plague
upon the river Euphrates in Revelation 16:12-16 came back to John in
chapter 17 and further explained the meaning of that same plague in Revelation
17. In short, Revelation 17 is an explanation and amplification of Revelation
16:12-16.

The Harlot Woman (17:1)

The harlot woman is the main protagonist of the story. She sits on the waters,
on the dragon beast and on the heads. She fornicates with the kings of the
earth. She gives wine to the nations. She sheds the blood of the saints. She has
dominion over the nations and she is eventually hated by the ten kings who
are described as the ten horns on the seventh head of the dragon beast. So, what
system does this harlot woman represent?

In the Old Testament a harlot woman was a symbol of apostate Israel (Ezekiel
16:15, 16 and chapter 23, Hosea). Ellen White explains that the harlot of
Revelation 17 symbolizes an apostate church—the Roman Catholic papacy.

“In Revelation 17 Babylon is represented as a woman—a figure which is used in
the Bible as the symbol of a church, a virtuous woman representing a pure
church, a vile woman an apostate church.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy,
p. 381.

“The power that for so many centuries maintained despotic sway over the
monarchs of Christendom is Rome.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 382
The harlot woman of Revelation 17 represents apostate religion which has
climbed on the back of the civil powers of the world with the purpose of using
them to support her doctrines and persecute God’s faithful people.

The harlot woman at the stage in which she appears in Revelation 17
represents the apostate Roman Catholic system. However, the meaning of the
symbol is broader. In our study we shall find that apostate religion actually
allied itself with seven consecutive world civil powers beginning with

                                                                          Page 73 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon and ending with a resuscitated papacy after her
deadly wound is healed.

Her Fornication (17:2; 18:3)

What is meant by the harlot’s fornication? The Bible refers to the church as
Christ’s bride (Ephesians 5:25-27). The church must be faithful to Jesus, her one
husband. However, when the church seeks out other lovers, she becomes a
harlot. The harlot represents an apostate religion that links up with the kings
of the earth and influences them to support her agenda. Thus, fornication
means that the church unites the church with the state in an unholy love affair.

As much is confirmed by Ellen White:

“It was by departure [the meaning of the word ‘apostasy’] from the Lord, and
alliance with the heathen, that the Jewish church became a harlot; and Rome,
corrupting herself in like manner by seeking the support of worldly powers,
receives a like condemnation.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 382

Ellen White adds:

“Whenever the church has obtained secular power, she has employed it to punish
dissent from her doctrines. Protestant churches that have followed in the steps of
Rome by forming alliance with worldly powers have manifested a similar desire
to restrict liberty of conscience.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 443

The Act of Sitting (17:1)

Revelation 17 tell us that the Babylonian harlot sits on many waters (17:1, 15),
on a scarlet beast (17:3) and on the seven mountains (17:9). How is it possible
for the harlot to sit upon all three of these at the same time? We shall answer
this very important question a little later in our study.




                                                                          Page 74 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The act of sitting symbolizes the fact that the harlot not only rules over the
kings of the earth (17:18) but also over every tribe, tongue and nation through
their power (Revelation 13:7).

The Waters (17:1)

What do the waters upon which the harlot sits represent? Chapter 17 gives us
the answer. The waters are symbolic of people from every nation, kindred and
tongue. Later on in this study we shall find that the waters and the body of the
dragon beast are interchangeable and mean the same thing.

According to the prophet Isaiah the nations make a noise like the noise of the
seas and a rushing like the rushing of many waters:

Isaiah 17:12, 13

“Woe to the multitude of many people who make a noise like the roar of the
seas, and to the rushing of nations that make a rushing like the rushing of
mighty waters! 13 The nations will rush like the rushing of many waters; but
God will rebuke them and they will flee far away, and be chased like the chaff
of the mountains before the wind, like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.”

Waters Dried Up

A careful comparison of Revelation 12, 13, and 17 reveals that the persecuting
waters upon which the woman sat were dried up once in the past (when the
populace forsook the papacy and arose against it in 1798) and will be dried up
once more in the future (when the populace will arise during the sixth plague
against the apostate religious leaders). Let’s take a look at these two occasions.

The Perspective of Revelation 12:

    Revelation 12:15 tells us that the seven-headed dragon (seemingly with
     seven mouths) spewed water out of a single mouth for 1260 days/years
     with the intention of drowning the woman. However, Revelation 12:16


                                                                          Page 75 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      states that when the persecuting waters were at flood stage the earth
      dried them up.
      “So the serpent spewed water out of his mouth [singular] like a flood after
      the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood. 16 But
      the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and
      swallowed up the flood which the dragon had spewed out of his mouth
      [singular].”
   After a time of respite when the waters no longer persecuted, the dragon
    will once again be enraged with the woman and will spew waters out of
    its mouth against the remnant of the woman’s Seed, that is, the remnant
    of Jesus.
      Revelation 12:17
      “And the [seven-headed] dragon was enraged with the woman, and he
      went to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the
      commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.”
      Joshua 24:2, 3, 14, 15 describes the Euphrates River euphemistically as
      ‘the Flood.’ In fact, several modern versions such as the ESV and the NCV
      replace the word ‘flood’ with the word ‘Euphrates’. Genesis 15:18
      describes the Euphrates as ‘the great River’ (see also Isaiah 8:7, 8; 17:12,
      13; 59:19; Revelation 16:12). Thus in Revelation 12 we are to understand
      the River (with the definite article in the Greek) or flood that the dragon
      spewed out his mouth as the river Euphrates.

      The word ‘flood’ in Revelation 12:15, 16 is pótamos, the selfsame word
      that appears in the story of the wise and foolish men who built their
      houses on the rock and on the sand. In the New Testament most of the
      uses of this word refer simply to a river. However, in the parable of the
      wise and foolish man Jesus was not referring to a mere river but rather
      to a river at flood stage. Thus, the KJV translates the word ‘river’ in
      Revelation 12:15, 16 correctly as ‘flood’. Notably, the parable in Luke

                                                                          Page 76 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      6:48, 49 uses the word pótamos and also plemmúra which does not mean
      ‘river’ but rather ‘flood’.

      Luke 6:48, 49

      ‘And when the flood [plemmúra] arose, the stream [pótamos] beat
      vehemently against that house, and could not shake it, for it was founded
      on the rock.’

The Perspective of Revelation 13:1-10

   Revelation 13:1-10 repeats and expands the scenario in Revelation 12
    but with different symbolism. Revelation 13:7 describes a sea beast that
    persecuted the saints for 42 months (the same period as the 1260
    days/years during which the flood attempted to drown the woman in
    Revelation 12:6, 14, 15). At the end of this period, the sea beast received
    a deadly wound (the same as the earth swallowing up the waters) with
    the sword (Revelation 13:10) and persecution against the woman ceased
    for a season. It is important to underline that only one of the seven heads
    was wounded (Revelation 13:3) just like in Revelation 12:14, 15 only one
    head was spewing out waters. When the wound heals, all the heads do
    not heal but only the one that was wounded.
   According to Romans 13:4, the sword belongs to the civil rulers. After
    a period of convalescence, the deadly wound of the sea beast is healed
    (the waters of persecution flow again) and the whole world wonders
    after the beast (Revelation 13:3, 11-18). In other words, the multitudes,
    tongues and people (Revelation 17:1, 2, 15) once again support the
    harlot.
      Some wonder whether the beast was actually killed or only mortally
      wounded. The expression “as it were wounded to death” (13:3) is identical
      to the description of Jesus as a Lamb “as it had been slain” (5:5). No one
      would sustain that Jesus was not killed! Revelation 13:10 leaves no doubt


                                                                          Page 77 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      that the beast was killed with the sword (13:10). It is very important to
      remember that when the head is dead, the beast is dead but when the
      head is alive, the beast is alive (cf. Revelation 13:12, 14).

The final flood and its drying up at the end of the Time of Trouble:

    When the deadly wound is healed, the harlot will influence the
     persecuting waters of the symbolic Euphrates to inundate/persecute
     God’s people once more (Revelation 13:3). This is the Euphrates at flood
     stage as described in Revelation 17. Thus, Revelation 17 describes the
     time when the symbolic Euphrates will flow once more because the
     harlot is able once more to fornicate with the kings of the earth because
     they will lend her the power of the sword.
    The scenario will be similar to the one in Revelation 12. After the earth
     helped the woman by drying up the persecuting waters, the dragon was
     enraged with the remnant of her seed and launched a deadly
     persecution/flood against them (Revelation 12:17).
    Revelation 16:12 explains that God will dry up the raging waters of the
     Euphrates as He did at the end of the 1260 years. In other words, the
     seventh and final head will receive a definitive and final deadly wound.
     Thus, Revelation 17 is an expansion of the final flowing of the water and
     its drying up.
    Revelation 17 explains that the kings over whom the harlot ruled will
     hate her and make her naked, eat her flesh and burn her with fire
     (Revelation 17:16). Once again, the sword of civil power that the harlot
     used to kill God’s people will turn against her, repeating events globally
     that will be similar in character to the French Revolution.

The Perspective of Daniel 11:40-45

Though Daniel 11:40-45 falls outside the immediate scope of our present study,
a few remarks might be helpful.

                                                                          Page 78 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   Daniel 11:31-39 describes the king of the north persecuting the saints
    and doing his will for [1260] ‘days’ (11:33).
   However, when the ‘days’ are over (at the time of the end in 1798) the
    king of the south rises against him and wounds him (11:40).
   The king of the north then recovers from his wound and rises like a
    mighty tempest to flood and overflow the world (11:40-44).
   But at the apex of his power the king of the north comes to his end and
    has no one to help him (11:45). This is another way of saying that the
    waters which helped the king of the north will dry up on him! The kings
    of the earth will rise against him. The kings and the multitudes will no
    longer support the harlot!
It does not take much of an imagination to discern the link between Daniel 11
and Revelation 12, 13 and 17. Notice the following comparison:

The waters flow during the 1260 days/42 months/time, times and
dividing of time:

   Revelation 13:5, 7 depicts the beast (the King of the North)
    persecuting the saints and ruling for 42 months.
   Revelation 12:13-15 describes this same period of persecution but with
    different symbolism. The dragon spews flood waters out of his mouth to
    overflow the woman (the faithful church) for 3.5 times.
The waters are dried up at the end of the 1260 days, 42 months/time,
times and dividing of time:

   At the time of the end, the beast (the King of the North) received a
    deadly wound (Revelation 13:3).
   Toward the end of the 1260 days/years, the dragon’s persecuting flood
    waters were dried up (Revelation 12:16). The drying up of the waters in
    Revelation 12 is related to the deadly wound in chapter 13.


                                                                          Page 79 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      Note: The earth represents the territory of the United States before the
      founding of the nation. The earth provided a refuge for the Pilgrims and
      others who fled the Old World to escape persecution in Europe. Someone
      might object that it was France that gave the papacy its deadly wound
      and not the United States. This is only partially true. The Colonial period
      provided the territory where later the nation of the United States arose
      with the principles that have kept the papacy inactive. Revelation 12:14-
      17 presents the following sequence of events:
          The dragon persecutes the woman for 1260 years from 538-1798
           (Revelation 12:14-16) ending with the French Revolution.
          The Colonial period when the territory of the United States
           provided a refuge for God’s people who fled persecution in Europe
           (Revelation 12:16).
          The dragon persecutes the remnant of the woman’s seed
           (Revelation 12:17).

It is hardly coincidental that Ellen White presents the same chronological
order of events in The Great Controversy:

    Ellen White described the 1260 years of papal persecutions ending in
     the French Revolution (GC, pp. 265-288).
    In the next chapter, Ellen White takes us back in time to describe the
     Colonial period (GC, pp. 291-298).
    Then Ellen White describes the nation that rose in that Colonial
     territory with its two foundational principles of civil and religious
     liberty. Then she describes how the nation will repudiate these
     principles and speak like a dragon (GC, pp. 433-450).




                                                                          Page 80 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The waters flow again and are dried up for the last time:

    After a period of respite, the beast’s deadly wound is healed and the
     floodwaters flow once more thus threatening the very existence of God’s
     remnant people (12:17; 13:11-18)
    Finally, when the spiritual Euphrates is at flood stage, God will dry it
     up and deliver his people (Revelation 16:12-16; see also Daniel 12:1).
In summary, the sequence in Daniel 11 and Revelation 12, 13 and 17 is as
follows:

    The Flood (the papacy ruled for 1260 days or 42 months: 538-1798).
    The waters dried up (the papacy lost the support of the state in 1798 and
     the wound is kept in place by the United States).
    The Flood (the deadly wound healed: The papacy will once again gain
     the support of the state through the agency of the United States).
    Waters dried up (the papacy loses world support during the sixth plague
     when the symbolic Euphrates dries up).

The Harlot’s Name

The harlot’s name is Babylon and she is the mother of harlots (17:5). If the
harlot is the mother of harlots, then she must have daughters that were born
from her at some point. Revelation also describes the daughters as the false
prophet or the lamb-horned beast (Revelation 13:11; 16:13).

In order to get the full picture of the end time evil triumvirate, we need to study
the story of Elijah in the Old Testament (along with his enemies, Ahab, Jezebel
and the false prophets of the sun-god Baal) and the story of the martyrdom of
John the Baptist (along with his enemies, Herod, Herodias and Salome in Mark
6).



                                                                          Page 81 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Protestant churches that were born from Roman Catholicism in the
sixteenth century failed to fully sever their relationship with their harlot
mother. Instead of completing the Reformation, they fell into apostasy along
with the mother, teaching many of their mother’s false doctrines such as the
sacredness of Sunday, the immortality of the soul and an eternally burning hell.
The book of Revelation clearly teaches that the daughters will be as anxious to
join church and state as is their mother. In fact, the daughters will help the
mother recover the power she lost at the end of the 1260 years.

“Babylon is said to be ‘the mother of harlots.’ By her daughters must be symbolized
churches that cling to her doctrines and traditions, and follow her example of
sacrificing the truth and the approval of God, in order to form an unlawful
alliance with the world.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 382, 383

At Vatican Council II Pope John XXIII and Paul VI referred to the Catholic Church
as the Mother and the Protestant churches as her alienated children:

Words of John XXIII at the opening of Vatican Council II (1962-1965):

“. . . She [the Roman Catholic Church] to be an affectionate, kind and patient
mother, she is moved by compassion and goodness towards her alienated
children.” (Ernesto Balducci, John: The Transitional Pope, transl., Dorothy White
[New York: Hill Book Company, 1964], p. 269.

This conciliatory tone sounds nothing like the church that slew the saints of the
Most High during the 1260 years. Ellen White well described the deceitfulness
of this system:

“It is a part of her policy to assume the character which will best accomplish her
purpose; but beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon, she conceals
the invariable venom of the serpent.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.
571
Pope Paul VI also addressed the Protestant observers during Vatican Council
II:

                                                                          Page 82 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“Because of their position, separated brethren are the object of deep and tender
affection on the part of the Mother Church. . . It is a love that feels grief and
sadness, the love of a heart wounded by estrangement, because the estrangement
prevents our brethren from enjoying so many privileges and rights, and makes
them lose so much grace. But perhaps for this very reason its love is all the deeper
and more burning. . .” Cardinal Augustin Bea, The Unity of Christians, ed., Bernard
Leeming [New York: Herder and Herder, 1963], p. 140

John O’Brien who for many years taught at Notre Dame University and wrote
over 40 books, explained the link between the mother and the daughters as
regards the observance of Sunday:

“That observance remains as a reminder of the Mother Church from which the
non-Catholic sects broke away—like a boy running away from home but still
carrying in his pocket a picture of his mother or a lock of her hair.” John O’Brien,
The Faith of Millions (Huntington, Indiana: Our Sunday Visitor, Inc., 1974) pp.
400, 401.

The Evil Triumvirate

Revelation 17 describes a wicked triumvirate composed of the harlot, her
daughters and the kings of the earth. Revelation 16:13 describes this evil
trilogy as the dragon, the beast and the false prophet and Revelation 17
describes it as the kings, the mother and the daughters.

In another extremely significant statement Ellen White explained the
relationship between the Mother and the Daughters:

“I saw that the two-horned beast [the false prophet] had a dragon's mouth [the
beast from the earth speaks as a dragon], and that his power was in his head,
and that the decree would go out of his mouth [very interesting in the light of
Revelation 12:15]. Then I saw the Mother of Harlots; that the mother was not
the daughters, but separate and distinct from them [this indicates that Roman
Catholicism in the Old World and Protestantism in the New, cover the period

                                                                          Page 83 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
of two separate heads on the beast of Revelation 17]. She [the Mother] has
had her day, and it is past [during the 1260 years], and her daughters, the
Protestant sects, were the next to come on the stage and act out the same mind
[notice the allusion to Revelation 17:17] that the mother had when she
persecuted the saints [during the 1260 years]. I saw that as the mother has been
declining in power, the daughters had been growing, and soon they will
exercise the power once exercised by the mother [this can be seen clearly
today].

I saw the nominal church and nominal Adventists, like Judas, would betray us to
the Catholics to obtain their influence [of the Catholics] to come against the
truth. The saints then will be an obscure people, little known to the Catholics;
but the churches [Protestants] and nominal Adventists who know of our faith
and customs (for they hated us on account of the Sabbath, for they could not
refute it) will betray the saints and report them to the Catholics as those who
disregard the institutions of the people; that is, that they keep the Sabbath and
disregard Sunday.

Then the Catholics bid the Protestants [the mother stands behind the
daughters to get them to issue a death decree] to go forward, and issue a
decree that all who will not observe the first day of the week, instead of the
seventh day, shall be slain. And the Catholics, whose numbers are large, will
stand by the Protestants. The Catholics will give their power to the image of
the beast. And the Protestants will work as their mother worked before them
[during the 1260 years] to destroy the saints.” Ellen G. White, Spaulding Magan
Collection, pp. 1, 2.

This statement indicates that we have far more to fear of apostate
Protestantism than we do of the papacy. In a related statement, Ellen White
gave her understanding (actually, God’s understanding) of Revelation 17:1-4:

“In the seventeenth of Revelation is foretold the destruction of all the churches
[these are the apostate Protestant churches] who corrupt themselves by


                                                                          Page 84 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
idolatrous devotion to the service of the papacy, those who have drunk of the
wine of the wrath of her fornication. [Rev. 17:1-4 quoted.]

Thus is represented the papal power [the harlot], which with all deceivableness
of unrighteousness, by outside attraction and gorgeous display, deceives all
nations; promising them, as did Satan our first parents, all good to those who
receive its mark, and all harm to those who oppose its fallacies. The power which
has the deepest inward corruption will make the greatest display, and will
clothe itself with the most elaborate signs of power. The Bible plainly declares
that this covers a corrupt and deceiving wickedness. ‘Upon her forehead was a
name written, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots and
Abominations of the Earth.’

What is it that gives its kingdom [the United States] to this power [to the
papacy]? Protestantism, a power which while professing to have the temper and
spirit of a lamb and to be allied to Heaven, speaks with the voice of a dragon. It is
moved by a power from beneath.” (Letter 232, 1899) Ellen G. White, The Seventh-
day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 983

One cannot miss the fact that apostate Protestantism in the United States and
the papacy are two separate kingdoms and the United States will give its
kingdom to the papacy.

Ellen White’s assessment squares perfectly with Revelation 13:11-18 where
everything the false prophet does, it does to honor the first beast:

Revelation 13:11-18

“Then I saw another beast coming up [used of plant growth in Matthew 13:7]
out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb [symbol of Christ 28 times
in Revelation] and spoke like a dragon [symbol of Satan working through
Rome]. 12 And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence
[at the first beast’s commissioning], and causes [by the use of compulsion]
the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast whose deadly

                                                                          Page 85 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
wound was healed [the papacy]. 13 He [the land beast] performs great signs, so
that he even makes fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of
men [reminiscent of the stories of Elijah and Pentecost]. 14 And he [the false
prophet] deceives those who dwell on the earth by those signs which he was
granted to do in the sight of [at the commissioning of] the beast, telling those
[NIV: ‘he ordered them’] who dwell on the earth to make an image to [‘in honor
of’ in the NIV: dative case] the beast who was wounded by the sword and lived.
15 He [the first beast in the light of Ellen White’s comment in Spaulding-

Magan, pp. 1, 2] was granted power to give breath to the image of [genitive
case] the beast, that the image of [genitive case] the beast should both speak
[through its legislative and judicial authority] and cause [uses compulsion]
as many as would not worship the image of [genitive case] the beast to be killed.
16 He causes [NIV: ‘forced everyone] all, both small and great, rich and poor, free

and slave, to receive a mark [Sunday observance] on their right hand [out of
convenience] or on their foreheads [out of conviction] 17 and that no one may
buy or sell except one who has the mark or the name [Vicarius Filii Dei] of the
beast, or the number of his name [666].” 18 Here is wisdom. Let him who has
understanding calculate [psephizo: see Luke 14:28] the number of the beast,
for it is the number of a man: His number is 666.”

In summary, the beast from the earth (the daughters) does everything to please
the first beast (the mother):

    The false prophet speaks like the dragon and the dragon represents
     Rome in its various stages (Revelation 13:11).
    The false prophet exercises all the authority of the first beast
     (Revelation 13:12).
    The false prophet makes an image of the first beast (Revelation 13:15).
    The false prophet makes an image in honor of the first beast (Revelation
     13:14).
    The false prophet makes all its citizens worship the first beast
     (Revelation 13:12).

                                                                          Page 86 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The false prophet imposes the mark of the first beast (Revelation 3:16).
    The false prophet does everything in the presence or at the
     commissioning of the first beast (Revelation 13:12, 14).
    The false prophet performed signs in the presence of the first beast ‘to
     deceive those who received the mark of the beast and those who
     worshiped his image’ (Revelation 13:13; 19:20).

Names of Blasphemy

The harlot has names of blasphemy on her forehead (17:5). In Scripture,
blasphemy means to provoking God by claiming to exercise His powers on earth
(John 10:30-33) such as the power to forgive sins (Mark 2:7). It also is used in
the Old Testament to describe opposition to God in the person of His people
(Ezekiel 37:3; 35:12).

The Bible mentions several titles and functions that belong to the Creator
God alone and the papacy claims them all:

    The representative of Christ on earth is the Holy Spirit (John 14-16)
    God alone is our Father (Matthew 23:9)
    We can only bow in reverence to God (Acts 10:25, 26)
    God alone can forgive sins (Mark 2:7)
    God alone is infallible in his proclamations (James 1:17)
    God alone has the right to set up kings and depose them (Daniel 2:21)
    God alone can judge all but can be judged by none (John 5:22, 27)
    God established the seventh day as His memorial of creation (Exodus
     20:8-11)




                                                                          Page 87 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Harlot’s Attire

Purple and scarlet are the colors of royalty (John 19:5; Matthew 27:28) and the
harlot sits or reigns over multitudes, nations, tongues and people. The harlot is
attired with gold, silver, precious stones and pearls. This indicates that this is a
very rich and ostentatious power. Notably, in the Old Testament, Israel
clothed herself with all this paraphernalia to entice the kings of the
surrounding nations to fornicate with her.

“The purple and scarlet color, the gold and precious stones and pearls, vividly
picture the magnificence and more than kingly pomp affected by the haughty
see of Rome.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 382.

It is significant that the Roman Catholic clergy’s colors are purple and scarlet.
It is also significant that the garments that the papal clergy uses do not include
the color blue! In Scripture, blue is a symbol of God’s holy Law (Numbers 15:37-
41). The papacy deceives the political powers of the world and the multitudes
by its imposing ritual, bewitching music, majestic cathedrals, impressive
vestments and priceless works of art. Ellen White once visited the Cathedral in
Milan. She seemed to be impressed with the majestic architecture but ended
on a sour note:

“Chief among these is the Cathedral, which, next to St. Peter's at Rome, is the
largest church in Europe. Built entirely of white marble, and adorned as it is on
the exterior with three thousand marble statues, ninety-eight Gothic turrets, and
a tower three hundred and sixty feet high, one cannot fail to be impressed with
its grandeur and immensity, and the artistic skill displayed in its design and
execution. And yet we could only look upon it as a vast pile of extravagance.”
Ellen G. White, RH, June 1, 1886

The Golden Cup with Wine

The golden cup in the harlot’s hand contains the wine of Babylon. The cup
could very well represent the magisterium of the church or what she calls ‘the

                                                                          Page 88 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
deposit of the faith’. Babylon gives her wine to the kings and all the inhabitants
of the earth (17:2; 18:3). Drinking or not drinking the wine is not optional
because the text tells us that Babylon makes all nations drink her wine and
makes the nations drunk with it (14:8; 17:2)

The wine is called ‘the wine of the wrath of her fornication’. That is, drinking the
wine causes wrath against those who are not willing to drink (14:8; 18:3).

Chapter 17 identifies the wine as Babylon’s ‘abominations and the filthiness of
her fornication’ (Revelation 17:4). That is, the cup is full of wine but the wine
symbolizes the harlot’s abominations. Thus, the words ‘wine’ and
‘abominations’ are interchangeable. The harlot’s abominations include several
things:

     Idol worship is an abomination (Deuteronomy 7:25, 26).
     The attempt to speak to and with the dead is an abomination
      (Deuteronomy 18:9-13).
     Refusing to hear God’s law is an abomination (Proverbs 28:9).
     Spiritual adultery is an abomination (Ezekiel 23:35-45).
     Eating unclean meats is an abomination (Deuteronomy 14:3).
     Shedding innocent blood is an abomination (Ezekiel 22:2).
     Sun worship is the greatest abomination (Ezekiel 8:16).

Ellen White clearly identified the meaning of the wine:

“The fallen denominational churches are Babylon. Babylon has been fostering
poisonous doctrines, the wine of error. This wine of error is made up of false
doctrines, such as the natural immortality of the soul, the eternal torment of
the wicked, the denial of the pre-existence of Christ prior to His birth in
Bethlehem, and advocating and exalting the first day of the week above God's
holy and sanctified day. These and kindred errors are presented to the world by
the various churches, and thus the Scriptures are fulfilled that say, 'For all


                                                                          Page 89 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.' It is a wrath which
is created by false doctrines, and when kings and presidents drink this wine of
the wrath of her fornication, they are stirred with anger against those who will
not come into harmony with the false and satanic heresies which exalt the false
Sabbath, and lead men to trample underfoot God's memorial.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies to Ministers, pp. 61, 62

At the end of our study we will see that these multitudes and rulers who have
swallowed the poisonous doctrines of this apostate system will sober up
from their drunken stupor and vent their wrath against the harlot.

In the above statement Ellen White blamed the churches for giving the rulers of
the world the wine of Babylon. However, in The Great Controversy, p. 389 she is
more specific. It is the ministers and the men of learning of the apostate
churches who are guilty of the spiritual intoxication of the world:

“When faithful teachers expound the word of God, there arise men of learning,
ministers professing to understand the Scriptures, who denounce sound
doctrine as heresy, and thus turn away inquirers after truth. Were it not that
the world is hopelessly intoxicated with the wine of Babylon, multitudes would
be convicted and converted by the plain, cutting truths of the word of God. But
religious faith appears so confused and discordant that the people know not
what to believe as truth. The sin of the world's impenitence lies at the door of the
church.”

After quoting Revelation 17:1-4 Ellen White clearly identified this harlot as
the Roman Catholic papacy:

“In the seventeenth of Revelation is foretold the destruction of all the churches
who corrupt themselves by idolatrous devotion to the service of the papacy, those
who have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. [Rev. 17:1-4 quoted.]

Thus is represented the papal power, which with all deceivableness of
unrighteousness, by outside attraction and gorgeous display, deceives all


                                                                          Page 90 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
nations; promising them, as did Satan our first parents, all good to those who
receive its mark, and all harm to those who oppose its fallacies.” Ellen G. White,
The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 983.

God’s Faithful People

In all three chapters (Revelation 12, 13, 17) where we find the seven-headed
beasts, they are at war with the people of God:

    God’s people in Revelation 12:13, 15 are referred to as a woman whom
     the dragon attempts to drown with the waters it spews out of its mouth.
    In Revelation 12:17 God’s people are called the ‘remnant of her Seed.’
     The dragon goes out to make war with them.
    In Revelation 13:7 God’s people are called the saints and the beast
     persecutes them.
    In Revelation 17:6 God’s people are called the saints and the martyrs
     of Jesus. The harlot, by using the waters upon which she sits, attempts
     to drown them.

Ellen White applies Revelation 17:6 to the career of the Roman Catholic papacy:

“The power that for so many centuries maintained despotic sway over the
monarchs of Christendom is Rome. . . And no other power could be so truly
declared ‘drunken with the blood of the saints’ as that church which has so cruelly
persecuted the followers of Christ. Babylon is also charged with the sin of unlawful
connection with ‘the kings of the earth.’” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.
382.

The Seven Headed Scarlet Dragon

John N. Andrews, perhaps the ablest scholar in the history of the Seventh-day
Adventist Church, had this to say about the three seven headed beasts of
Revelation 12, 13 and 17:

                                                                          Page 91 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“The seven heads are seven forms of civil power which successively bear rule.
These seven heads belong alike to the dragon of Revelation 12, the beast of
chapter 13, and that of Revelation 17. This shows conclusively that the dragon
and these two beasts are symbols of the same power under different heads; for
there are not three sets of seven heads, but it is evident that the heads are
successive forms of its power, one of them bearing rule at a time, and then
giving place to another (Revelation 17:9, 10). The proper period of each seems to
be this: The dragon before the 1260 years, the beast of chapter 13 during that
period, and the beast of chapter 17 since the deadly wound and captivity at the
close of that period.” (J. N. Andrews, The Three Messages of Revelation XIV, 6-12,
pp. 77, 78.

The seven heads of the dragon beast are also described as seven mountains.
In Bible prophecy mountains represent kingdoms, not individual kings
(Daniel 2:34, 35, 44; Jeremiah 51:25; Micah 4:1; Revelation 17:9 in the light of
Daniel 2:38, 39; 7:17, 23). This means that the seven heads must represent
seven kingdoms that have ruled upon the earth and have been controlled by
the harlot or apostate religion.

The River Dragon

In order to comprehend the meaning of the seven headed dragon upon which
the harlot sits, we must first understand how the ancients perceived river
dragons.

In the mythology of the ancients, mountains were considered the heads of a
great cosmic river serpent/dragon. According to their pre-scientific world
view, the mountains/heads would spew out waters (we call them
headwaters) which would flow down and form a riverbed in the valley. As the
river twisted and turned tortuously in the valley it looked like the body of a
great river serpent/dragon. According to their pre-scientific view, when the
river was at flood stage it overflowed its banks and sprouted wings (see Isaiah
8:7, 8 for an example).


                                                                          Page 92 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
It is of the utmost importance to keep in mind that Revelation 12:15-16 and
17:15, 9, 15 is drawing on this ancient concept. However, in Revelation the
river dragon takes on a symbolic meaning. The mountains/heads symbolize
kingdoms and the waters (the body of the dragon) represent multitudes,
nations, tongues and peoples. It is important to understand that the nations,
multitudes, tongues and peoples actually form the body of the dragon beast.
This is the reason why the harlot is described as sitting on a scarlet beast as
well as on the waters. In other words, the waters and the scarlet beast are
interchangeable. And the waters/dragon are scarlet because they are filled
with the blood of God’s people (17:6).

The reliability of this ancient view as it applies to Revelation 17 is seen in the
fact that the seven heads are identified also as seven mountains. As we have
already seen, in antiquity, the mountains were conceived as the heads of a
dragon beast.

It is crucially important to realize that while the heads/mountains are spewing
out waters, the dragon beast is alive. When the heads/mountains, however,
cease to spew out waters, the dragon beast is dead. Thus the beast is alive or
dead depending on whether the harlot is able to use the head to persecute
God’s people. That is to say, when the harlot commands the kings to order their
multitudes to persecute God’s people, the dragon beast is alive. When the civil
powers uphold democratic principles and keep aloof from the church, the
dragon beast is dead!



                   This section is blank intentionally.
                    Please proceed to the next page.




                                                                          Page 93 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
       Parallels Between Revelation 12, 13 and 17 Chart

           Revelation 12 and 13                            Revelation 17

Seven heads and ten horns (12:3; Seven heads and ten horns (17:3)
13:1)

Names of blasphemy (13:1)                    Names of blasphemy (17:3)

Woman (12:1)                                 Woman (17:1)

Call for wisdom (13:18)                      Call for wisdom (17:9)

Nations, tongues, peoples (13:7)             Nations, tongues, peoples (17:15)

Persecution (12:6, 13-15)                    Persecution (17:6)

Waters (12:15)                               Waters (17:1)

Waters dried up (12:16)                      Waters dried up (16:12)

Was (1260 years—12:6; 13:5)                  ‘Was’ (1260 years—17:8)

Is not (deadly wound—12:16; 13:3)            ‘Is not’ (deadly wound—17:8)

Wound healed (12:17; 13:3)                   ‘Shall be’ (wound healed—17:8)

Beast & false prophet (13:1-18)              Harlot and daughters (17:5)



Three Seven-headed Beasts

The three seven-headed beasts originate in different places:

   When the seven headed dragon attempted to slay the man child, a sign
    was seen in heaven (Revelation 12:1) because it was a battle between
    Christ and Satan that originated in heaven.


                                                                          Page 94 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The seven headed beast of Revelation 13:1 arose from the sea because it
     was a heavily populated area.
    The seven headed scarlet beast of Revelation 17:8 will arise from the
     abyss because the beast is resurrecting from the deadly wound.

From the Abyss
The dragon of Revelation 17 ascends from the abyss (Revelation 17:8) and the
abyss is the realm of the dead:

Romans 10:7

“Or, who shall descend into the deep [abyss in Greek]? (that is, to bring up Christ
again from the dead.)”

In Revelation 20:1 Satan is cast into the abyss with a deadly wound when he
cannot use the rulers because they are dead. Satan comes up from the abyss
when he is able once more to use the kings to accomplish his purposes because
they have resurrected (Revelation 20:5, 7-9).

Seven Heads

Revelation 17:10 tells us that the seven heads represent seven kings (17:10).
However, the word ‘kings’ in Bible prophecy is interchangeable with ‘kingdoms’
(Revelation 17:10; Daniel 7:17, 23; 2:37-39). The seven heads are actually
seven successive civil kingdoms that have ruled the world since
Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon.

Some have thought that Egypt and Assyria are the first two heads of the scarlet
beast. According to this scenario the seven heads would be: [1] Egypt, [2]
Assyria, [3] Babylon, [4] Medes and Persians, [5] Greece, [6] Roman Empire, [7]
Papal Rome and [8] Papal Rome healed from its deadly wound (the eighth
kingdom).




                                                                          Page 95 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The problem with this concept is that Egypt and Assyria are not found in any of
the lines of prophecy in Daniel or Revelation. Egypt does appear symbolically
in Revelation 11 (representing France) but there the beast from the abyss does
not persecute God’s people but rather gives the fifth head a deadly wound.

Daniel 2 (the gold), Daniel 7 (the lion) and Revelation 13 (the lion) all begin
with Babylon as the first kingdom and Daniel 8 and 11 begin with the
kingdom of Persia. Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon is known as the neo-
Babylonian Empire. It is called so because it is a continuation of the Babylon
that originated at the tower of Babel. All false religions have their origin at the
fountainhead of the tower of Babel because from there humans spread out all
over the earth.

Are the Seven Heads Seven Popes?

In more recent times some have thought that the seven heads represent seven
successive popes who have ruled since what they conceive to be the healing
of the deadly wound in 1929.

In this scenario, as of 2005, the five heads which had fallen since 1929 were:

    Pius XI (1922-1939)
    Pius XII (1939-1958)
    John XXIII (1958-1963)
    Paul VI (1963-1978)
    John Paul I (1978)

According to this scenario, the head who is (or sixth head) would have been
John Paul II (1978-2005) and the one who is to come and would rule a short
time was Benedict XVI (the seventh head) who served as pope from 2005-
2013.



                                                                          Page 96 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
However, Benedict resigned from the papal chair on February 28, 2013 so the
present pope, Francis I, would supposedly be #8 in the series of popes since
1929. So, as the speculation goes, Francis I will be the last pope because
Revelation 17:11 refers to an eighth and Pope Francis I is the eighth pope since
1929! But this view can be discarded because Pope Francis I, is not one of the
seven previous ones as is required by the prophecy of Revelation 17:11.
Furthermore, the heads represent civil kingdoms, not individual popes within
those kingdoms.

In summary, this is what the list of popes would look like in this scenario:

      #1: Pius XI (1922-1939)
      #2: Pius XII (1939-1958)
      #3: John XXIII (1958-1963)
      #4: Paul VI (1963-1978)
      #5: John Paul I (1978)
      #6: John Paul II (1978-2005)
      #7: Benedict XVI (2005-2013)
      #8: Francis I (2013-?)

Before the election of Francis, evangelicals and even some Adventists had
referred to a prophecy by St. Malachy to the effect that the next pope would be
the last, that he would be black (a euphemism for the head of the Jesuit Order
who is called the ‘black pope’) and his name would be Petrus Romanus. None
of these things are true of Francis I. All of this speculation detracts from the
power of this prophecy.

The fact is that this prophecy has nothing to do with individual popes. The
seven heads are not seven individuals but rather seven kingdoms. All this
speculation about the seven heads should be discarded for the following
reasons:




                                                                          Page 97 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
First, it comes pretty close to setting specific dates for the final prophetic
movements. In this scenario, the successor of Pope Benedict XVI would be the
last pope. Is this not setting a definite time frame for end time events?

Second, these speculative views sever Revelation 17 from the previous
prophetic lines of Daniel 7 and Revelation 12 and 13. As we have seen above,
Revelation 12, 13 and 17 are indissolubly linked! Ellen White understood the
common thread between Revelation 12, 13 and 17:

“God has warned His people of the perils before them. John beholds the things
which will be in the last days and he sees a people working counter to God.”

Then she wrote:

“Read Revelation 12:17; 14:10-13, and chapters 17 and 13.” Manuscript Releases,
volume 17, p. 18

Third, although the seven heads/mountains of this dragon beast are said to be
seven kings, the words ‘kings’ and ‘kingdoms’ are used interchangeably in
prophecy (see Daniel 2:39; 7:17, 23). In prophecy, ‘mountains’ represent
kingdoms not individual rulers. The popes on the list above are actually not
rulers of seven distinct kingdoms but rather leaders of the same kingdom.

Finally, there is little evidence that 1929 should be chosen as the beginning
date for the sequence of the seven heads. As I have clearly shown in another
place, the deadly wound was not healed in 1929 because Revelation 13:11-18
tells us that the United States will be instrumental in the healing of the deadly
wound, not Italy.

The Beast’s Three Final Stages

The beast from the abyss has three consecutive historical stages:

    It “was [past] and is not [present] and shall be [future]” (17:8)



                                                                          Page 98 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   It “was and is not and yet is [better translation is: ‘shall be present’]
    (17:8).
   These same time periods are described as “five are fallen [past], one is
    [present] and the other is not yet come [future]” (17:10)
   The time periods are also explained as the beast who “was [past], and is
    not [present], even he is the eighth [future]” (17:11).
      Note: The beast ‘was’ during the 1260 years of Papal dominion. It ‘is not’
      because the beast presently has a deadly wound. It ‘shall be’ because the
      deadly wound will be healed and the whole world will wonder after the
      beast.

The heads of the dragon beast do not rule simultaneously but consecutively.
The heads are wounded one by one as each civil power passes from the scene.
We know this for at least two reasons:

   First, archeological digs in ancient Tell Amar:
      A cylinder seal from Tell Amar in Mesopotamia (ancient Iraq) depicts a
      seven-headed dragon engaged in conflict with two deities, one before it
      and the other behind. Four of the heads, pierced by a spear, are shown
      drooping and are no longer in conflict. But the other three heads are still
      erect, maintaining the struggle.
   Second, Revelation 12:15 explains that only one mouth is spewing out
    persecuting waters at any given time. Further, Revelation 13:3, 5, 6 tells
    us that only one head of the seven-headed beast received the deadly
    wound.

The Meaning of the Seven Heads

To the best of our present knowledge, the seven heads represent the following
successive civil kingdoms that have or will be allied with apostate religion:

   #1: Babylon
   #2: Medes and Persians


                                                                          Page 99 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    #3: Greece
    #4: Roman Empire (and its ten horns/divisions).
    #5: The civil powers of Europe (with its ten horns/divisions) under the
     control of the harlot/papacy.
    #6: The civil power of the United States under the influence of apostate
     Protestantism.
    #7: The civil powers of the entire world (indicated by the ten horns) who
     resurrect, and under the leadership of the harlot will persecute God’s
     people as in the past.

It will be observed that in this scenario, three of the last four heads of this
scarlet beast are Roman (heads #4, #5 and #7) and even head #6 (the United
States) will become an ally of Rome because it will speak like a dragon and the
dragon is a symbol of Rome (see the material on Matthew 24 for the connection
between the United States and its fascination with Rome). The question that
begs to be asked is: Why would three (or four) of the seven heads relate to
Rome? Isn’t one head enough to represent the various stages of Rome?

The answer to these questions is quite simple. The books of Daniel and
Revelation themselves take up the stages of Rome separately. In Daniel 2 the
legs of iron [the Roman Empire] are distinguished from the feet of iron and
clay [the divided Roman Empire and papal Rome]. In Daniel 7:23, 24 we find
a clear distinction between the dragon ruling with ten horns (head #4),
followed by the dragon with the little horn (head #5). Revelation 13 adds that
the little horn/beast will have another stage after its deadly wound is healed
(head #7). However, kingdom #6 (the United States) will be instrumental in
giving head # 5 its power back.

Even further, Revelation 12 portrays a dragon in heaven with ten horns as a
symbol for Pagan Rome, Revelation 13 uses a composite beast from the sea
with ten horns to represent Papal Rome during the 1260 years and Revelation
17 employs yet a third beast from the abyss with ten horns to represent the
papacy when its deadly wound is healed.

                                                                         Page 100 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
If three beasts which arise in three different places are used to represent the
different stages of Rome, then it should not surprise us that separate heads
are used to depict those same stages. It is important to underline that the sixth
head (the United States under apostate Protestantism) is symbolized by a
separate beast and is related to Rome because it speaks like a dragon and the
dragon represents Satan working through Rome.

Ellen White clearly identifies the last three persecuting powers in their proper
historical sequence She underlines that when the heads persecute God’s
people, the heads are alive:

“Under the symbols of the great red dragon, a leopard-like beast, and a beast
with lamblike horns, the earthly governments which would be especially
engaged in trampling upon God's law and persecuting His people were
presented to John. Their war is to be carried on till the close of time. The people
of God, symbolized by a holy woman and her children [Revelation 12:6, 17],
are represented as greatly in the minority. In the last days, only a remnant still
exists. John speaks of them as those that ‘keep the commandments of God, and
have the testimony of Jesus Christ.’ Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, February 8,
1910

Regarding the last head in the sequence of seven, Ellen White has stated:

“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist
among the Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and
variance. Yet under one head—the papal power—the people will unite to
oppose God in the person of His witnesses.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, vol. 7, p. 182

Ellen White linked the United States with papal Rome:

“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they
might worship him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land
over which for long years the shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land


                                                                         Page 101 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
which God has favored by making it the depository of the pure religion of Christ—
when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure [solemnly renounce] the
principles of Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in
tampering with God's law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be
revealed. Protestants will throw their whole influence and strength on the side
of the Papacy; by a national act enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life
and vigor to the corrupt faith of Rome, reviving her tyranny and oppression of
conscience. Then it will be time for God to work in mighty power for the
vindication of his truth.” Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, June 12, 1893.

Some have wondered about the eighth head of the dragon beast. The simple
fact is that this beast does not have eight heads—it has only seven but the
seventh head counts as an eighth; that is to say, head number 7 bears the
number 8.

Time and again Revelation 17 tells us that there are only seven heads on the
dragon beast (17:3, 7, 9, 10). Louis Were has shown in his book, The Woman
and the Beast in Revelation, that the number eight is symbolic of the
resurrection. In other words, head #7 bears the number 8 because it has
resurrected from the deadly wound.

The Wings

Though Revelation 17 does not use the symbolism of wings, it would be well to
notice that in Isaiah 8:7, 8 the invasion of King Sennacherib into the land of
Judah is compared to the flooding of the mighty river Euphrates. The river at
flood stage is compared to a dragon extending its wings:

“Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the River,
strong and mighty—the king of Assyria and all his glory; he will go up over all
his channels and go over all his banks. 8 He will pass through Judah, he will
overflow and pass over, he will reach up to the neck; and the stretching out of
his wings will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.”


                                                                         Page 102 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Ten Horns

The ten horns are found on the head of the dragon beast of Revelation 12, on
the head of the sea beast of Revelation 13 and on the head of the scarlet beast
of Revelation 17. Whereas the seven heads rule consecutively, the ten horns
rule contemporaneously. This is made clear by the fact that all ten horns will
rule (when they receive the kingdom) simultaneously on the seventh head
when the beast resurrects from its death wound (Revelation 17:12)

The ten horns are symbolic of ten kings (17:12) and the ten kings represent
‘the kings of the earth and the whole world’ (16:14; see also 17:18). During the
1260 days/years, the ten toes and the ten horns of Daniel 2 and 7 represented
the nations of Western Europe but at the end, the ten toes and ten horns
represent the kings of the earth and the whole world (see Revelation 16:14).

Revelation 17 is an explanation and expansion of the last three plagues of
chapter 16. Notice the common themes:

    Babylon (Revelation 16:18, 19; 17:5)
    Waters (16:12; 17:1, 2, 15)
    Kings (16:13, 14; 17:2, 12-14)
    Drying up (16:12; 17:16)
    War and Christ’s victory (16:18, 19; 17:14)

The Number Ten

Are we to understand that there will be just ten nations in the world that will
have one mind? Of course not. Remember that the three evil spirits gather the
‘kings of the earth and the whole world’ to the final battle. The number ten is
synonymous with ‘all’. We can see this in several biblical texts:




                                                                         Page 103 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Genesis 24:10: Ten camels are symbolic of all of Abraham’s goods:

“Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, for all his
master's goods were in his hand. And he arose and went to Mesopotamia, to the
city of Nahor.”

Luke 19:13: Ten servants are symbolic of all of Christ’s professed followers:

“So he called ten of his servants, delivered to them ten minas, and said to them,
'Do business till I come.'”

1 Samuel 1:8: Ten sons:

“Then Elkanah her husband said to her, "Hannah, why do you weep? Why do you
not eat? And why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons?”

Ecclesiastes 7:19: More than ten rulers of the city represents all the rulers:

“Wisdom strengthens the wise more than ten rulers of the city.”

Daniel 1:20: The young men were ten times better:

“And in all matters of wisdom and understanding about which the king examined
them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers who
were in all his realm. 21 Thus Daniel continued until the first year of King Cyrus.”

Matthew 25:1: Ten virgins represent all of God’s professed people

"Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps
and went out to meet the bridegroom. 2 Now five of them were wise, and five were
foolish.”

Leviticus 27:30: When we return 10% of our income we are confessing that
all belongs to God

“And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the
tree, is the LORD 's. It is holy to the LORD.”


                                                                         Page 104 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Ten Commandments express the entire duty of man (Ecclesiastes
12:13). God added no more to them (Deuteronomy 5:22). The whole law and
prophets are summarized in the ten (Matthew 22:40).

All on the Same Page

These kings of the earth and the whole world will be of one mind or be on the
same page until the words of God are fulfilled and God’s last word is ‘it is done’
at the seventh plague (16:17; 17:17).

When the words of God are fulfilled, Babylon united will become Babylon
divided. Events similar to those at the tower of Babel will occur but on a global
scale. Regarding the confusion at Babel, Ellen White wrote:

“Confusion and dismay followed. All work came to a standstill. There could be
no further harmony or co-operation. The builders were wholly unable to
account for the strange misunderstandings among them, and in their rage and
disappointment they reproached one another. Their confederacy ended in
strife and bloodshed. Lightnings from heaven, as an evidence of God's
displeasure, broke off the upper portion of the tower and cast it to the ground.
Men were made to feel that there is a God who ruleth in the heavens.” PP 119

The ten kings represent the rulers of the Christian world who, under the
leadership of apostate Protestantism and Roman Catholicism, will influence the
multitudes to enact and enforce a Sunday law. When this happens, the kings
will all be on the same page.

Ellen White linked the arrogance of the Babel builders with the final Babylon:

“There are tower builders in our time. Infidels construct their theories from the
supposed deductions of sciences, and reject the revealed word of God. They
presume to pass sentence upon God's moral government; they despise His law
and boast of the sufficiency of human reason. Then, ‘because sentence against an
evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully
set in them to do evil.’ Ecclesiastes 8:11.

                                                                         Page 105 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the professedly Christian world many turn away from the plain teachings
of the Bible and build up a creed from human speculations and pleasing
fables, and they point to their tower as a way to climb up to heaven. Men hang
with admiration upon the lips of eloquence while it teaches that the transgressor
shall not die, that salvation may be secured without obedience to the law of God.
If the professed followers of Christ would accept God's standard, it would bring
them into unity; but so long as human wisdom is exalted above His Holy Word,
there will be divisions and dissension. The existing confusion of conflicting
creeds and sects is fitly represented by the term ‘Babylon,’ which prophecy
(Revelation 14:8; 18:2) applies to the world-loving churches of the last days.”
Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 123, 124
Revelation 17 tells us that for as short period the kings will give their power,
authority and kingdom to the beast (17:12, 13).

“The so-called Christian world is to be the theater of great and decisive actions.
Men in authority will enact laws controlling the conscience, after the example of
the papacy. Babylon will make all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her
fornication. Every nation will be involved. Of this time John the Revelator declares:
[Rev. 18:3-7; 17:13, 14, quoted]. "These have one mind." There will be a universal
bond of union, one great harmony, a confederacy of Satan's forces. "And shall
give their power and strength unto the beast." [Ellen White cites Revelation
17:12, 13] Thus is manifested the same arbitrary, oppressive power against
religious liberty—freedom to worship God according to the dictates of
conscience—as was manifested by the papacy, when in the past it persecuted
those who dared to refuse to conform with the religious rites and ceremonies of
Romanism.” Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, vol. 3, p. 392

The ten kings will be ‘kings with the beast for one hour’ (17:12) and they will
make war with the lamb (19:11, 19; 16:14; 17:14) in the person of His
witnesses:

“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist
among the Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and

                                                                         Page 106 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
variance. Yet under one head—the papal power—the people [under the
leadership of their political leaders] will unite to oppose God in the person of
His witnesses. This union is cemented by the great apostate.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 183
The war will not be directly against God but rather against God in the person of
His people. Those who touch His people touch the apple of His eye (Zechariah
2:8). In Matthew 25 Jesus said to His faithful followers: “In that you have done it
unto one of these the least my brothers you have done it unto me.” And when
Jesus spoke to Saul of Tarsus He said: “Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?”

The glorious climax of this prophecy tells us that Jesus will overcome the kings
of the earth and the whole world because He is the King of kings and Lord of
lords (17:14; 19:19-20). Those who are allied with Jesus are called, chosen and
faithful (17:14).

The Kings Hate the Harlot

The kings of the earth and the whole world will not always carry on a love affair
with the harlot who controls them. At the voice of God, they will realize, too late,
that the harlot and her daughters have deceived them. Then, the kings will hate
the harlot and turn against her (17:15-16). The political leaders will encourage
the multitudes to turn against the harlot and her daughters. The kings will hate
her and the waters will dry up on her. A scene similar to the French Revolution
will be witnessed but on a global scale.

Ellen White described the time when the waters of the great River Euphrates
will dry up (16:12):

“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness [the fifth plague], deeper
than the darkness of the night, falls upon the earth. Then a rainbow, shining with
the glory from the throne of God, spans the heavens and seems to encircle each
praying company [God’s people in light]. The angry multitudes are suddenly


                                                                         Page 107 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
arrested [the sixth plague]. Their mocking cries die away. The objects of their
murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings they gaze upon the
symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its overpowering
brightness.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 636

“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having
led them to destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation
upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they
have led their hearers to make void the law of God and to persecute those who
would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers confess before the world
their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury. "We are lost!" they
cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false shepherds
[the waters now avalanche themselves against the religious leaders]. The
very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful curses
upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be raised
for their destruction. The swords which were to slay God's people are now
employed to destroy their enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed. Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 656.

The Final Drying up of the Waters

The seven headed dragon of Revelation 17 is reminiscent of a dragon like
creature called Leviathan. There are three key passages in the Old Testament
that describe this seven-headed monster: Psalm 74:10-14; Job 41 and Isaiah
27:1. The New Testament also alludes to this persecuting sea creature
(Revelation 12:3, 4, 7-9). As we examine these texts we discover the following
interesting details:

    Leviathan is a sea creature with multiple heads and he rules over the
     waters.
    Leviathan is also called the fleeting serpent and the great dragon. In fact,
     the Hebrew word ‘Leviathan’ means ‘twisted, coiled.’



                                                                         Page 108 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    Leviathan is a deadly enemy of God and His people. Job was afflicted by
     this archenemy.
    Leviathan is the king of the children of pride.
    Ultimately God will pull out Leviathan from its natural habitat, cast him
     onto dry land and crush its heads.

Though the book of Revelation does not use the name ‘Leviathan’ it is clear that
the dragon beast of Revelation 12 and the scarlet beast of Revelation 17 is
Leviathan. All of the details about Leviathan in the Old Testament coalesce in
the portrait painted in Revelation. The dragon of Revelation 12 is defined as the
dragon, the ancient serpent and Satan. The name ‘Satan’ appears in Job as the
persecutor of Job and Isaiah 27:1 refers to Leviathan as the dragon and the
fleeting serpent.

After the millennium the kings of the earth will resurrect from their death
wound and will persuade the waters/multitudes to attack God and His people
in the city (Revelation 20:5, 7-9). At this point Satan in person rides the beast,
not the apostate religious systems. Satan will entice the kings and the
multitudes to surround the New Jerusalem and they will be like the river
Euphrates at flood stage (this is the imagery behind Psalm 46). As the political
and military leaders are ready to drown the city, God reveals to the multitudes
that Satan is the great deceiver and the kings and the multitudes will turn
against him. Before this they were all of one mind but now Babylon falls apart.
As the kings turned against the harlot and her daughters before the millennium,
the kings and multitudes will turn against Satan at the end. Notice how Ellen
White describes this final drying up of the waters after the millennium:

“He [Satan] rushes into the midst of his subjects and endeavors to inspire them
with his own fury and arouse them to instant battle. But of all the countless
millions whom he has allured into rebellion, there are none now to acknowledge
his supremacy. His power is at an end. The wicked are filled with the same
hatred of God that inspires Satan; but they see that their case is hopeless, that they


                                                                         Page 109 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
cannot prevail against Jehovah. Their rage is kindled against Satan and those
who have been his agents in deception, and with the fury of demons they turn
upon them.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 671.

This portrayal by Ellen White is corroborated by the picture in Ezekiel 28:2-
10 where the nations will unsheathe their swords against the covering
cherub, Lucifer.




                                                                         Page 110 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


             Lesson #7 – Revelation 18: The Demise of
                           Babylonian Capitalism



Review of the Structure of Revelation 16:12-16

Revelation 16:12

Up to the moment of the fifth plague (the plague of darkness), Babylon’s waters
(the multitudes that support her) are at flood stage and intend to drown God’s
people. However, at the sixth plague, the waters suddenly dry up (withdraw
their support) and avalanche themselves against the religious leaders and
Babylon falls. The drying up of the waters distracts the masses from their
murderous rage thus preparing the way for the coming of the kings from the
east (Jesus and His angels).

Revelation 16:13-14

Revelation 16:13, 14 are parenthetical and take us back to probationary time
when the wicked swirling waters are in the process of increasing and
consolidating against God’s people. Three evil angels with a counterfeit


                                                                         Page 111 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
message will go ‘to the kings of the earth and the whole world’ to gather them
for the final battle of Armageddon against God in the person of His people. At
the same time three holy angels (Revelation 14:6-12) will be gathering God’s
remnant on His side.

Revelation 16:15

This verse continues the parenthetical statement. Jesus warns His people to
be gathered on the right side before probation closes because when the
gathering is over, there will only be two groups: Those who walk clothed
and have the Seal of God and those who walk naked and have the Mark of the
Beast.

Revelation 16:16

We must not understand the events of verse 16 as occurring after the events of
verses 13 and 14. Rather, verses 13, 14 take us back to the gathering time before
the close of probation. When all have been gathered for Armageddon and
probation has closed, the battle will take place. Here is the sequence with verse
15 in parentheses:

“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon,
out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. 14 For they
are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the earth and
of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God
Almighty. ("Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps
his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame.") 16 And they gathered
them [the three evil angels] to the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon.”

    Verse 12: The sixth plague: The drying up of the waters
    Verses 13, 14: Go back in time to the gathering during probationary time
    Verse 15: Parenthetical statement: Be gathered on the Lord’s side
    Verse 16: Gathered at the Mount of the Congregation for Armageddon.


                                                                         Page 112 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Location of Armageddon

Where is Armageddon located? The word Armageddon is a compound name
that comes from two Hebrew words: Har (mount) and mogged (congregation).
Putting the two words together, we find that the wicked are gathered for the
final battle at the Mount of the Congregation.

As is well known, the Hebrew language had no vowels. Thus the vowels ‘a’ in
Har and ‘o’ and ‘e’ in mogged are not in the Hebrew text. This means that in the
original Hebrew we find the consonants hr mggd.

The Greek word Har-magedon is borrowed from the Hebrew and has the
identical vowels as Har-mogged. But what do we do with the Greek ending ‘-
on’ in Armageddon? The addition of the ending –on is simply a way of rendering
a Hebrew word into Greek. In other words, the ending ‘-on’ is a Greek ending
that is attached to a Hebrew word.

Let us provide another biblical example of a Hebrew word that is rendered in
Greek with the –on ending, the word abad (Obadiah 12). The Hebrew word is
rendered into Greek in Revelation 9:11 as Abaddon. The ending ‘-on’ is a
Greek ending attached to the Hebrew word abad.

A practical contemporary example might help. In English we say: “I am going to
park the car.” In Spanish you would say ‘I am going to parquear the car’. The
ending ‘-ear’ provides a Spanish ending to an English word.

Both Daniel and Revelation, tell us that God will gather His people to spiritual
Mt. Zion where they will congregate to worship the Lord. In the dispensation
of the Spirit, Zion represents God’s faithful remnant that is gathered to Jesus
in the entire world. Revelation describes a two-fold gathering. God’s people
are gathered globally to spiritual Mt. Zion (the Mount of the Congregation) and
the wicked are gathered globally around it at Armageddon in an attempt to
destroy it.


                                                                         Page 113 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the Old Testament the Hebrew word mggd (‘congregation’) is used
exclusively to refer to the congregation of the tabernacle. It is a sanctuary
term that refers to the congregation that meets at the temple on Mt. Zion to
worship the Lord. The Mount of the Congregation in heaven is the place that
Lucifer attempted to usurp from the Lord:

Isaiah 14:12-14; Psalm 48:1, 2

“How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are cut
down to the ground, you who weakened the nations! 13 For you have said in your
heart: 'I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I
will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest sides of the north;
14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High.'


“Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in His holy
mountain. 2 Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion on
the sides of the north, the city of the great King.”

God’s dwelling place is on Mt. Zion on the sides of the north. At the beginning of
the great controversy in heaven, Satan aspired to take over the heavenly
Mount of the Congregation in the sides of the north, but was defeated.
Therefore, at the end, Satan will attempt to conquer the earthly mount where
God’s people have spiritually gathered to worship the Lord. Carefully study the
following texts:

    Revelation 14:1: God’s people stand victorious on Mt. Zion after their
     trial over the beast, his image and his mark in the previous chapter:
      “Then I looked, and behold, a Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him
      one hundred and forty-four thousand, having His Father's name written on
      their foreheads.”
    Revelation 14:19, 20: The grapes are gathered outside the Holy City and
     God’s people are inside:



                                                                         Page 114 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      “So the angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the
      earth, and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. 20 And the
      winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out of the
      winepress, up to the horses' bridles, for one thousand six hundred furlongs.”
    Joel 2:32; see also 3:9-12: The wicked gather in the winepress in the
     Valley of Jehoshaphat outside of Jerusalem for an attack on God’s people:

      “And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall
      be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be deliverance,
      as the Lord has said, among the remnant whom the Lord calls.”
    Daniel 11:45: The king of the north places the tents of his palace
     between the seas and the Glorious Holy Mountain of Zion:
      “And he shall plant the tents of his palace between the seas and the glorious
      holy mountain; yet he shall come to his end, and no one will help him.”

Conclusion: In Revelation 16:16 the kings of the earth and the whole world are
gathered in the place whose name means ‘Mount of the Congregation’. Their
intention in gathering there is to slay God’s people who are spiritually on Mt.
Zion. God’s people are depicted as the harvest of the earth inside the city and
the wicked are portrayed as the grapes gathered outside the city (Revelation
14:20).

The Composite Picture of Revelation 16-19

Revelation 16:12-16

    The spirits of devils have totally possessed Babylon at the close of
     probationary time and have gathered the kings of the earth and the
     whole world to war against Christ in the person of His witnesses.
    When probation closes, the waters of the spiritual Euphrates are at
     flood stage. Each of the first four plagues intensifies the anger of the
     waters until they are ready to blot out God’s people from the earth.



                                                                         Page 115 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   When it appears that the waters will drown God’s people, the plague of
    darkness (the fifth plague) falls upon the earth immediately followed by
    the drying up of the flooding waters under the sixth plague.
   The seventh plague then divides Babylon into three parts and
    desolates the earth (Revelation 16:17-21).

Revelation 17

   Once again, the Babylonian harlot seems to be in full control. She is
    sitting on many waters, is fornicating with the kings of the earth and is
    supported by her daughters. The waters are flowing and God’s people
    are in jeopardy.
   The unity of Babylon is destroyed when the kings turn on her
    (Revelation 17:16). This unity comes to an end when the words of God
    are finished at the moment of the seventh plague (Revelation 17:17)
Revelation 18:6-24

   This chapter describes the lamentation of the multitudes of the world
    when they see that Babylon has fallen and they are lost.
   When God’s people are delivered by the voice of God before Jesus comes
    with the armies of heaven (the kings that come from the east), there will
    be a period where the merchants and the kings of the earth will lament
    and wail over the fact that their riches cannot save them in the day of
    God’s wrath.
Revelation 19:1-10 (clearly denoted in verses 2, 3):

   There is a song of joy in heaven because God has judged the harlot and
    avenged His people.
   This song is to be seen in contrast to the lamentation of the multitudes
    when they see that Babylon has fallen.



                                                                         Page 116 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    Jeremiah 51:48, 49 describes the joyous celebration in heaven:
      “When the heavens and the earth and all that is in them shall sing
      joyously over Babylon; for the plunderers shall come to her from the north,"
      says the LORD. 49 As Babylon has caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at
      Babylon the slain of all the earth shall fall.”
Revelation 19:11-21

    The kings from the east—Jesus and His angels—come for the one-sided
     final battle against the kings of the earth, the beast and the false
     prophet (Revelation 19:19, 20).
    The winepress symbolism from Revelation 14:18-20 is now further
     described. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 641.

Ellen White on the Timing of Revelation 18:6-24

There are three chapters toward the end of The Great Controversy where Ellen
White begins the chapter with Bible verses that provide the central theme of
the entire chapter.

On page 603, Ellen White begins the chapter on the ‘The Final Warning’ (pp.
603-612) by quoting Revelation 18:1, 2, 4. Therefore, we know that the
central theme of this chapter is the latter rain and the Loud Cry of Revelation
18:1-5.

On page 613, Ellen White begins the chapter on ‘The Time of Trouble’ (pp. 613-
634) by quoting Daniel 12:1. There are three key events in this verse:

    The standing up of Michael when probation closes.
    The time of trouble after the close of probation.
    The deliverance at the end of the time of trouble of those who are
      written in the book of life.



                                                                         Page 117 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In this chapter Ellen White expounds fully upon the first two events (the
standing up of Michael and the time of trouble) of Daniel 12:1 and then ends
the chapter with a brief mention of the third event (the deliverance of God’s
people).

“Glorious will be the deliverance of those who have patiently waited for His
coming and whose names are written in the book of life.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, p. 634
We would expect Ellen White to have much more to say about the third event
and she does! The very next chapter is titled “God’s People Delivered” (pp. 635-
652). Ellen White does not quote any biblical verse to begin this chapter, why
not? Simply because this chapter is a full exposition of the third event of Daniel
12:1 which she briefly introduced at the end of the previous chapter. That is to
say, Daniel 12:1 is still the introductory verse to this chapter.

The Structure of The Great Controversy (GC), pp. 635, 636

It is important to note that Ellen White describes the first four plagues (the
jeopardy plagues) in the chapter on “The Time of Trouble” (pp. 627-629) but
does not comment on the last three (the deliverance plagues) until the first two
pages of the next chapter (pp. 635, 636). The first two pages of the chapter
‘God’s People Delivered’ contain Ellen White’s commentary on the fifth, sixth and
seventh plagues.

Let’s consider this in greater detail:

GC, p. 635: After the first four plagues are poured out (GC, pp. 627-629), the
multitudes (waters) that support Babylon are furiously swirling and are about
to rush upon God’s people to execute the death decree. At this point, the harlot
is sitting on many waters intending to destroy God’s people:

“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs [multitudes] of evil
men are about to rush [waters rush: Isaiah 17:12, 13] upon their prey [God’s
people].”

                                                                         Page 118 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
GC, p. 635: When the darkness of the fifth plague falls upon the earth, the
raging waters of the spiritual Euphrates are suddenly arrested or dried up.
This is the sixth plague, the drying up of the Euphrates, that prepares the way
for the coming of Jesus and His armies from the east:

“The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested [dried up]. Their mocking cries
die away. The objects [the faithful remnant] of their murderous rage are
forgotten.”

GC, p. 636: God’s voice is then heard saying ‘it is done’ which marks the
outpouring of the seventh plague:

“In the midst of the angry heavens is one clear space of indescribable glory,
whence comes the voice of God like the sound of many waters, saying: "It is done."
Revelation 16:17.” That voice shakes the heavens and the earth.”

Ellen White then goes on to quote Revelation 16:17, 18, 19, 21 that describe the
seventh plague.

After ending the chapter on the deliverance of God’s people on page 652, Ellen
White begins the next chapter on “The Desolation of the Earth”, by citing
Revelation 18:5-10, 11, 13, 15-17. Therefore, we know that this chapter
contains Ellen White’s commentary on the fulfillment of Revelation 18:5-24.

It is important to remember that Ellen White did not quote Revelation 18:1-4
at this juncture because she had already quoted these verses as the beginning
of the chapter on The Final Warning. Clearly, Ellen White understood that
Revelation 18:1-4 describes events during probationary time and Revelation
18:5-24 describes events during the last three plagues.

Ellen White’s Perspective of Revelation 18:6-24

In the chapter on “The Desolation of the Earth” (pp. 653-661) Ellen White picks
up at the very same point where she left off in The Great Controversy, pp. 635,



                                                                         Page 119 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and 636. This means that in this chapter she expands upon the events that will
occur when God delivers His people during the last three plagues:

“When the voice of God turns the captivity of His people [referring back to
the beginning of the chapter on the deliverance of God’s people—GC, pp.635,
636], there is a terrible awakening of those who have lost all in the great conflict
of life.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.654
This quotation on the second page of the chapter ‘The Desolation of the Earth’
takes us back to the moment when the voice of God delivered His people at
the moment of the fifth plague. Thus, Ellen White gives us the precise
chronological point for the fulfillment of Revelation 18:6-24. The book of
Revelation itself links the events of Revelation 16 and 17 with chapter 18 in the
concluding verse of chapter 17:

“And the woman whom you saw is that great city which reigns over the kings
of the earth."

Revelation 17 expands upon Revelation 16 giving us the political/religious
perspective and Revelation 18 provides the political/economic perspective.
Revelation 17:18 is striking because it tells us that the kings reign over the earth
but the harlot reigns over them. This clearly shows that the church in the end
time will rule over the state.

Revelation 18:6-24 is a description of the last three plagues. It is a vivid
portrayal of how the wicked will wail and lament when they see that their own
choice has forfeited eternal life for present pleasures. Ellen White vividly
describes the scene:

“The people [the waters of the ‘Euphrates’] see that they have been deluded.
They accuse one another of having led them to destruction; but all unite in
heaping their bitterest condemnation upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors
have prophesied smooth things; they have led their hearers to make void the
law of God and to persecute those who would keep it holy. Now, in their despair,
these teachers confess before the world their work of deception. The multitudes

                                                                         Page 120 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
[the waters of the ‘Euphrates] are filled with fury. ‘We are lost!’ they cry [this
is their lament and wailing in chapter 18], ‘and you are the cause of our ruin;’
and they turn upon the false shepherds [the waters dry up]. The very ones that
once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful curses upon them. The
very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be raised for their
destruction. The swords that were to slay God's people are now employed to
destroy their enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed.” Ellen G. White,
The Great Controversy, pp. 655, 656
The following paragraph captures in summary form the central theme of
Revelation 18:6ff:

“The rich [the merchants] prided themselves upon their superiority to those
who were less favored; but they had obtained their riches by violation of the law
of God. They had neglected to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to deal justly,
and to love mercy. They had sought to exalt themselves and to obtain the
homage of their fellow creatures. Now they are stripped of all that made them
great and are left destitute and defenseless. They look with terror upon the
destruction of the idols that they preferred before their Maker. They have sold
their souls for earthly riches and enjoyments, and have not sought to become
rich toward God. The result is, their lives are a failure; their pleasures are now
turned to gall, their treasures to corruption. The gain of a lifetime is swept away
in a moment. The rich bemoan the destruction of their grand houses, the
scattering of their gold and silver [in the light of James 5]. But their
lamentations are silenced by the fear that they themselves are to perish with
their idols.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 654
Thus the central theme of Revelation 18:6ff is the collapse of the world
political and economic system that supported the Babylonian harlot and her
daughters. At that point the kings, the merchants and the multitudes will see
that they are lost and that their riches are worthless. And they will be infuriated
primarily with the wicked religious leaders who have deceived them with a
prosperity gospel!



                                                                         Page 121 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The entire chapter is written in the literary style of a lamentation or funeral
dirge. When the Babylonian system collapses, the multitudes will realize that
their religious leaders have deceived them and they will turn on them. Their
religious leaders encouraged them to get rich and to persecute those who keep
the Sabbath. Both Ezekiel 7:15-19 and James 5:1-7 point forward to this time.

Ezekiel 7:15-19

“'They will throw their silver into the streets, and their gold will be like refuse;
their silver and their gold will not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath
of the LORD; they will not satisfy their souls, nor fill their stomachs because it
became their stumbling block of iniquity. 20 'As for the beauty of his ornaments,
He set it in majesty; but they made from it the images of their abominations their
detestable things; therefore, I have made it like refuse to them. 21 I will give it as
plunder into the hands of strangers, and to the wicked of the earth as spoil; and
they shall defile it.”

James 5:1-6

“Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon
you! 2 Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten. 3 Your
gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you
and will eat your flesh like fire. You have heaped up treasure in the last days.
4 Indeed the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back

by fraud, cry out; and the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord
of Sabaoth. 5 You have lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury; you have
fattened your hearts as in a day of slaughter. 6 You have condemned; you have
murdered the just; he does not resist you.”

The Flow of Chapter 18

As we have seen, Revelation 17:18 bridges chapter 17 with chapter 18. This
verse tells us that the harlot of chapter 17 and the city of chapter 18 are
interchangeable:

                                                                         Page 122 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“And the woman whom you saw is that great city which reigns over the kings of
the earth."

Here is a bird’s eye view of the structure of Revelation 18:

    Revelation 18:1-5: The loud cry to come out of Babylon before the
     outpouring of the seven last plagues.
    Revelation 18:6-8: Retribution upon Babylon for her sins.
    Revelation 18:9, 10: The lament of the kings of the earth.
    Revelation 18:11-16: The lament of the Capitalists (‘the great men of the
     earth’).
    Revelation 18:17-19: The lament of the employees and travelers.
    Revelation 18:20: Rejoicing in heaven over Babylon’s fall.
    Revelation 18:21-24: Drowning of the Great City and cessation of her
     activities.
The Location of Verses 1-5

Revelation 18:1-5 is a parenthesis between Revelation 17 and 18:6-24. As we
have seen, Revelation 17 portrays the final global apostasy of Babylon and
her doom. Revelation 18:6-19 then describes the same period but from a
different perspective. In between, we find the warning to come out of Babylon
so as not to participate in her sins and receive her plagues. It is rather obvious
that this warning must be given shortly before the close of probation and the
outpouring of the plagues. Clearly, verse 5 indicates that when the warning is
given the plagues have not yet fallen. Here is the scenario:

    Revelation 17 describes the sins and condemnation of Babylon.
    Revelation 18:1-5 calls God’s people to come out of Babylon before
     divine condemnation falls upon her.
    Revelation 18:6-24: The lamentation of those who fail to respond to
     the call.




                                                                         Page 123 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Analysis of the Revelation 18:1-5 Parenthesis

Revelation 18:1-5 (“The Final Warning”, GC, pp. 603-612)

“After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great
authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory. 2 And he cried mightily
with a loud voice, saying, "Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and has become a
dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit, and a cage for every
unclean and hated bird! 3 For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath
of her fornication, the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her,
and the merchants of the earth have become rich through the abundance of her
luxury." 4 And I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my
people, lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues. 5 For
[because] her sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered her
iniquities.”

Revelation 18:1-5: The Loud Cry

There is a close link between the second angel’s message in Revelation 14:8
and the Loud Cry message of the Angel in Revelation 18:1-5. The Millerites
proclaimed the message of Revelation 14:8 leading up to 1844. At that time,
God’s faithful children left the fallen Protestant Churches and joined those who
were proclaiming the judgment hour message. Shortly before the close of
probation the second angel’s message will be proclaimed once more but with
global extension and with far greater power. Ellen White explained the
relationship between Revelation 14:8 and 18:1-3 in this way:

“When Jesus began His public ministry, He cleansed the temple from its
sacrilegious profanation. Among the last acts of His ministry was the second
cleansing of the temple. So in the last work for the warning of the world, two
distinct calls are made to the churches. The second angel's message is, ‘Babylon
is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine
of the wrath of her fornication.’ And in the loud cry of the third angel's message


                                                                         Page 124 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
a voice is heard from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not
partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. For her sins have
reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities" Ellen G. White,
RH December 6, 1892

“This scripture [Revelation 18:1-5] points forward to a time when the
announcement of the fall of Babylon, as made by the second angel of Revelation
14 (verse 8), is to be repeated, with the additional mention of the corruptions
which have been entering the various organizations that constitute Babylon,
since that message was first given, in the summer of 1844. A terrible condition
of the religious world is here described. With every rejection of truth the minds of
the people will become darker, their hearts more stubborn, until they are
entrenched in an infidel hardihood [resolute and self-assured audacity]. In
defiance of the warnings that God has given, they will continue to trample upon
one of the precepts of the Decalogue, until they are led to persecute those who
hold it sacred. Christ is set at naught in the contempt placed upon His word and
His people. As the churches accept the teachings of spiritualism, the restraint
imposed upon the carnal heart is removed, and the profession of religion will
become a cloak to conceal the basest iniquity. A belief in spiritual
manifestations opens the door to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, and
thus the influence of evil angels will be felt in the churches.” Ellen G. White,
The Great Controversy, pp. 603, 604
So to speak, the Loud Cry will be the three angels’ message on steroids. Notice
the following comparison between the second angel’s message in Revelation
14:8 and the Loud Cry angel in Revelation 18:1-4:



                   This section is blank intentionally.
                    Please proceed to the next page.




                                                                         Page 125 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
         Revelation 14:8                              Revelation 18:1-5
 An angel proclaims the message              A mighty angel proclaims the message

 No mention of a loud voice                  The angel cries mightily with a loud voice

 She fell because she made nations drink She fell because she gave wine to the
 wine                                    nations

 No call to come out of her                  Call to come out of her before the plagues

 No mention of demons in Babylon             Babylon is the habitation of demons

 No mention of kings and merchants           Mention of kings and merchants

 No mention of sins piled up to heaven       Her sins have filled the cup

 No mention of God’s punishment of Babylon Mention of God’s punishment of Babylon



Counterfeit and Genuine

According to Revelation 13:13 and the Spirit of Prophecy there will be a great
counterfeit revival just before the outpouring of the Latter Rain and the Loud
Cry:

“Notwithstanding the spiritual darkness and alienation from God that exist in
the churches that constitute Babylon, the great body of Christ’s true followers is
still to be found in their communion. There are many of these who have never seen
the special truths for this time. Not a few are dissatisfied with their present
condition and are longing for clearer light. They look in vain for the image of
Christ in the churches with which they are connected. As these bodies depart
further and further from the truth, and ally themselves more closely with the
world, the difference between the two classes will widen, and it will finally result
in separation. The time will come when those who love God supremely can no
longer remain in connection with such as are "lovers of pleasures more than
lovers of God; having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof."

                                                                         Page 126 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 18 points to the time when, as the result of rejecting the threefold
warning of Revelation 14:6-12, the church will have fully reached the condition
foretold by the second angel, and the people of God still in Babylon will be called
upon to separate from her communion. This message is the last that will ever
be given to the world; and it will accomplish its work. When those that "believed
not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness" (2 Thessalonians 2:12), shall
be left to receive strong delusion and to believe a lie, then the light of truth will
shine upon all whose hearts are open to receive it, and all the children of the
Lord that remain in Babylon will heed the call: "Come out of her, My people"
(Revelation 18:4). Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.390
“Notwithstanding the widespread declension of faith and piety, there are true
followers of Christ in these churches. Before the final visitation of God's judgments
upon the earth, there will be, among the people of the Lord, such a revival of
primitive godliness as has not been witnessed since apostolic times. The Spirit
and power of God will be poured out upon his children. At that time many will
separate themselves from those churches in which the love of this world has
supplanted love for God and his Word. Many, both of ministers and people, will
gladly accept those great truths which God has caused to be proclaimed at this
time, to prepare a people for the Lord's second coming. The enemy of souls desires
to hinder this work; and before the time for such a movement shall come, he will
endeavor to prevent it, by introducing a counterfeit. In those churches which he
can bring under his deceptive power, he will make it appear that God's special
blessing is poured out; there will be manifest what is thought to be great
religious interest. Multitudes will exult that God is working marvelously for
them, when the work is that of another spirit. Under a religious guise, Satan will
seek to extend his influence over the Christian world.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 464
Ellen White seems to indicate that this counterfeit revival will be accompanied
by literal fire from heaven as happened on the Day of Pentecost:
“Satan will work through his agents who have departed from the faith to bring
fire down from heaven in the sight of men.” Selected Messages, vol. 2, p. 54


                                                                         Page 127 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Someone might say: Literal fire falling from heaven? Are you kidding? Really?
How could such a thing happen?
We can illustrate how this might occur by mentioning some remarks that
world-renowned Pentecostal evangelist and faith healer, Benny Hinn made. On
Friday evening, November 13, 2001 I was in a hotel room near Tucson,
Arizona and happened to tune in to TBN’s “Praise the Lord” program. Paul
Crouch, President of TBN, was interviewing Benny Hinn about his conversion
experience. Hinn explained that before he was a Christian he had visions and
dreams of himself preaching in stadiums before thousands of people. Then he
said this, and I quote:
“In the last twelve months I have been having some new dreams and visions . . .
some amazing dreams. I have been seeing fire. I have seen myself in stadiums
where literal fire was falling from heaven. The glory of God is about to be revealed
visibly.”
Hinn then referred to the tongues of fire on the Day of Pentecost, the Elijah
experience on Mt. Carmel and the pillar of fire in the wilderness as proof that
in the future literal fire would fall from heaven at his meetings.
The critical question is this: Would the descent of literal fire from heaven and
the performance of undeniable miracles be a sign that the Holy Spirit is being
poured out and that the message is true? Of course not! The Bible provides the
standard by which all supernatural phenomena must be tested. Our senses
cannot be trusted and our feelings can lead us astray.
Isaiah 8:20 clearly states:

“To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is
because there is no light in them.”

Do Benny Hinn’s teachings square with the Bible? Two items will prove that
they do not. Hinn claims to speak regularly with the spirit of Katherine
Kuhlman at her graveside at the Forest Lawn Cemetery in Glendale, California.
He also claims that he obtains power from the mausoleum of the deceased

                                                                         Page 128 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Pentecostal preacher, Amee McPherson at the same cemetery. He has also
gone on the record stating that Sunday is the day that the Lord has made to be
kept by Christians in honor of the resurrection of Christ.

Verse by Verse Study of Revelation 18

Comments on Verse 1

“After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great
authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory.”

The word ‘power’ is exousía and really should be translated, ‘authority’. This
angel not only has authority; he has mega authority. This is the Loud Cry angel.
He is not the same Angel that calls the faithful out of Babylon in verse 4.

In the darkest period of history, God will reveal the greatest light, and that light
is the truth about God’s glorious character of love as revealed in His Law (see
Exodus 33:18, 19; 34:6, 7). The Loud Cry angel actually strengthens the
message of all three:

“The three angels' messages are to be combined, giving their threefold light to
the world. In the Revelation, John says, "I saw another angel come down from
heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory."
[Revelation 18:2-5 quoted.] This represents the giving of the last and threefold
message of warning to the world (Ellen G. White, Manuscripts 52, 1900). {Ellen
G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 985.6}
“The prophecies in the eighteenth of Revelation will soon be fulfilled. During the
proclamation of the third angel's message, ‘another angel’ is to ‘come down from
heaven, having great power,’ and the earth is to be ‘lightened with his glory.’ The
Spirit of the Lord will so graciously bless consecrated human instrumentalities
that men, women, and children will open their lips in praise and thanksgiving,
filling the earth with the knowledge of God, and with His unsurpassed glory, as
the waters cover the sea.” Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible
Commentary, vol. 7, p. 983

                                                                         Page 129 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“The last rays of merciful light, the last message of mercy to be given to the world,
is a revelation of His character of love. The children of God are to manifest His
glory. In their own life and character they are to reveal what the grace of God
has done for them.” Ellen G. White, Christ Object Lessons, p. 415
“By beholding Christ, by talking of Him, by beholding the loveliness of His
character we become changed. Changed from glory to glory. And what is glory?
Character—and he becomes changed from character to character. Thus we see
that there is a work of purification that goes on by beholding Jesus.” Ellen G.
White, Sons and Daughters of God, p. 337

Comments on Verse 2

“And he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying, "Babylon the great is fallen, is
fallen, and has become a dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit,
and a cage for every unclean and hated bird!”

The might of the message is underlined by the words: ‘He cried out with a
strong voice’. This is the reason why we call this the ‘Loud Cry’.

Verse 2 contains three parallel expressions each building on the previous one:

    ‘a dwelling place of demons’
    ‘a prison for every foul spirit’
    ‘a cage for every unclean and hated bird’

The two-fold repetition of the expression ‘is fallen’ and the three expressions
that follow denote a crescendo. In Hebrew poetry this is what is called
synonymous parallelism. At this point, just before the close of probation,
Babylon will have experienced an irreversible moral fall that is beyond repair.
She will have been totally possessed by the forces of evil.

Revelation 18:2 is a confirmation of Revelation 16:13 where the text describes
a Babylonian trilogy speaking with the authority of the demons whose sole
purpose is to congregate the global community for the final battle against God

                                                                         Page 130 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
in the person of His witnesses. Ellen White used the same type of parallelism
when she stated that:

“There will be a universal bond of union, one great harmony, a confederacy of
Satan's forces.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 137

The hateful birds here are not sparrows! They are birds of prey. This is clearly
indicated in Revelation 19:17 where the same Greek word refers to the fowl
of the air. In other words, these birds are scavengers and they prey upon those
who are deceived by Babylon. The word ‘cage’ is translated ‘prison’ elsewhere
in the New Testament.

Ellen White described the condition of the religious world during this period:

“A terrible condition of the religious world is here described. With every rejection
of truth, the minds of the people will become darker, their hearts more stubborn,
until they are entrenched in an infidel hardihood. In defiance of the warnings
which God has given, they will continue to trample upon one of the precepts of the
Decalogue, until they are led to persecute those who hold it sacred.” Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, p. 603
Ellen White remarks about this time:

“After the truth has been proclaimed as a witness to all nations, every
conceivable power of evil will be set in operation, and minds will be confused by
many voices crying, ‘Lo, here is Christ; lo, He is there. This is the truth, I have the
message from God, He has sent me with great light.’ Then there will be a
removing of the landmarks, and an attempt to tear down the pillars of our
faith. A more decided effort will be made to exalt the false sabbath and to cast
contempt upon God Himself by supplanting the day He has blessed and
sanctified. This false sabbath is to be enforced by an oppressive law. Satan and
his angels are wide-awake and intensely active, working with energy and
perseverance through human instrumentalities to bring about his purpose of
obliterating from the minds of men the knowledge of God. But while Satan works
with his lying wonders, the time will be fulfilled foretold in the Revelation, and the

                                                                         Page 131 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
mighty angel that shall lighten the earth with his glory will proclaim the fall of
Babylon, and call upon God's people to forsake her.” Ellen G. White, The Review
and Herald, December 13, 1892

Ellen White described the Loud Cry and its messengers:

“As the time comes for it to be given with greatest power, the Lord will work
through humble instruments, leading the minds of those who consecrate
themselves to His service. The laborers will be qualified rather by the unction of
His Spirit than by the training of literary institutions. Men of faith and prayer
will be constrained to go forth with holy zeal, declaring the words that God gives
them. The sins of Babylon will be laid open. The fearful results of enforcing the
observances of the church by civil authority, the inroads of spiritualism, the
stealthy but rapid progress of the papal power--all will be unmasked. By these
solemn warnings the people will be stirred. Thousands upon thousands will
listen who have never heard words like these. In amazement they hear the
testimony that Babylon is the church, fallen because of her errors and sins,
because of her rejection of the truth sent to her from heaven. As the people go to
their former teachers with the eager inquiry: Are these things so? The ministers
present fables, prophesy smooth things, to soothe their fears and quiet the
awakened conscience. But since many refuse to be satisfied with the mere
authority of men and demand a plain "Thus saith the Lord," the popular
ministry, like the Pharisees of old, filled with anger as their authority is
questioned, will denounce the message as of Satan and stir up the sin-loving
multitudes to revile and persecute those who proclaim it.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 606, 607
Comments on Verse 3

“For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, the
kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the
earth have become rich through the abundance of her luxury."

The word ‘merchants’ in verse 3 literally means ‘one who is on a journey’ for
trade. The concept comes from Ezekiel 27 where the merchants of Tyre

                                                                         Page 132 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
traveled in ships to sell their wares. We must link the merchants of Revelation
18 with Revelation 13:15 where we are told that Babylon forbade God’s
faithful people to buy and sell because they did worship the image of the beast
or receive his mark. Now, in return, Babylon is unable to sell her wares. She is
bankrupt!

At the end of verse 3 the word that is translated ‘luxury’ is actually dúnamis
which should be translated ‘power’. The power of Babylon resided in her
economic clout. Now she is going to totally lose her power because she will no
longer be able to sell her merchandise.

Comments on Verse 4

“And I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my people,
lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues.”

The purpose of the Loud Cry is to proclaim the fall of Babylon and to call God’s
faithful people to come out before the outpouring of the seven plagues. An angel
comes down from heaven to the earth to proclaim that Babylon is fallen but it
is God’s voice from heaven that calls His very own people to come out of
Babylon. Babylon is not only the papacy but also the apostate protestant
churches:

“Babylon is said to be ‘the mother of harlots.’ By her daughters must be
symbolized churches that cling to her doctrines and traditions, and follow her
example of sacrificing the truth and the approval of God, in order to form an
unlawful alliance with the world. The message of Revelation 14, announcing
the fall of Babylon must apply to religious bodies that were once pure and have
become corrupt. Since this message follows the warning of the judgment, it must
be given in the last days; therefore, it cannot refer to the Roman Church alone,
for that church has been in a fallen condition for many centuries. Furthermore, in
the eighteenth chapter of the Revelation the people of God are called upon to come
out of Babylon. According to this scripture, many of God's people must still be in
Babylon. And in what religious bodies is the greater part of the followers of Christ


                                                                         Page 133 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
now to be found? Without doubt, in the various churches professing the
Protestant faith.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 382
We must understand the call to come out of Babylon in verse 4 in the light of
the Old Testament literal parallel (Isaiah 48:20; Jeremiah 50:8; 51:6, 45).
God’s literal Israel in the Old Testament were called to come out of literal
Babylon in order escape her doom. However, they were not merely to leave
Babylon without any particular destination. They were to come out of Babylon
to go to Jerusalem. This will happen in a spiritual sense at the end of time.
God has a global spiritual Israel in global spiritual Babylon and they will be
called out to come to spiritual Jerusalem—God’s global remnant people:

“No longer have the hosts of evil power to keep the church captive; for "Babylon
is fallen, is fallen, that great city," which hath "made all nations drink of the wine
of the wrath of her fornication;" and to spiritual Israel is given the message,
"Come out of her, My people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
receive not of her plagues." Verse 8; 18:4. As the captive exiles heeded the message,
"Flee out of the midst of Babylon" (Jeremiah 51:6), and were restored to the Land
of Promise, so those who fear God today are heeding the message to withdraw
from spiritual Babylon, and soon they are to stand as trophies of divine grace in
the earth made new, the heavenly Canaan.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings,
pp. 715, 134
Comments on Verse 5

“For her sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.”

The sins of Babylon are listed in Revelation 17 and 18:

    Pride and arrogance (Revelation 18:7)
    Crass materialism (Revelation 18:11-14)
    Giving wine of false doctrine to the nations (Revelation 14:8; 17:2; 18:2,
      3)
    Fornication between the church and the state (Revelation 17:2; 18:3)
    Persecution of God’s people (Revelation 17:6; 18:20, 24; see Jeremiah

                                                                         Page 134 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
     51:24)
    Practicing the ‘art’ of deception through sorcery (Revelation 16:13, 14;
     18:23)

Revelation 16 describes Babylon’s plagues. The culmination of her
punishment will be during the fifth, sixth and seventh plagues when the
multitudes withdraw will their support from her and the kings of the earth will
turn against her (Revelation 16:19; 17:1, 16; 18:6-8).

We are not to understand the word ‘remembered’ as God suffering from some
sort of temporary amnesia. God has been aware of Babylon’s sins all along and
they have been accumulating (cf. Jeremiah 51:9). The divine ledger has been
adding up and when her sins have reached the limit that God has established,
God will remember, that is, execute punishment. God’s ‘remembering’ must be
understood in the sense of God delaying the ultimate punishment until the cup
of iniquity is full. That is to say, God delays punishment and when the cup is full,
He ‘remembers’ (Genesis 15:16; Revelation 14:10; 16:19; Matthew 23:32).

One is reminded of the doom of the cities of the plain. God did an investigative
judgment of the cities because the outcry against them had reached unto
heaven. When God determined that the ledger was full, the cities were
destroyed (Genesis 13:13; 18:20, 21).

“The destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah was on account of their great
wickedness. They gave loose rein to their intemperate appetites, then to their
corrupt passions, until they were so debased, and their sins were so abominable,
that their cup of iniquity was full, and they were consumed with fire from
heaven.” Ellen G. White, Counsels on Diet and Foods, p. 60

God keeps a ledger with every nation on earth:

“With unerring accuracy the Infinite One still keeps account with the nations.
While His mercy is tendered, with calls to repentance, this account remains
open; but when the figures reach a certain amount that God has fixed, the

                                                                         Page 135 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
ministry of His wrath begins. The account is closed. Divine patience ceases. Mercy
no longer pleads in their behalf.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 364
Regarding the Amorites, Ellen White wrote:

“Of the Amorites the Lord said: "In the fourth generation they shall come hither
again: for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full." Although this nation was
conspicuous because of its idolatry and corruption; it had not yet filled up the
cup of its iniquity, and God would not give command for its utter destruction. The
people were to see the divine power [as in the Loud Cry] manifested in a
marked manner, that they might be left without excuse. The compassionate
Creator was willing to bear with their iniquity until the fourth generation. Then,
if no change was seen for the better, His judgments were to fall upon them.”
Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol.5, p. 208
And Ellen White wrote about the downward slide of the Protestant world into
apostasy:

“The professed Christian world is advancing, as did the Jewish nation, from one
degree of sinfulness to a greater degree, refusing warning after warning, and
rejecting a ‘Thus saith the Lord’, while crediting the fables of men. The Lord God
will soon arise in His wrath, and pour out His judgments upon those who are
repeating the sins of the inhabitants of the Noachic world [see Genesis 6:5].
Those whose hearts are fully set in them to do evil, as were the hearts of the
inhabitants of Sodom, will like them be destroyed. The fact that God had long
forbearance, patience and mercy, the fact that His judgments have been long
delayed, will not make the punishment any less severe when it does come.” Ellen
G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 4, p. 1143
Ellen White wrote about the downward slide of the United States into apostasy:

“The people of the United States have been a favored people; but when they
restrict religious liberty, surrender Protestantism, and give countenance to
popery, the measure of their guilt will be full, and ‘national apostasy’ will be
registered in the books of heaven. The result of this apostasy will be national ruin.”
Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, May 2, 1893

                                                                         Page 136 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
On the other side of the coin the same could be said about the relationship of
God with His people. As His faithful children are suffering to the utmost in the
time of trouble, and God seems to have forgotten them, He will ‘remember’ His
covenant and deliver them (see Exodus 2:24; 6:5). God’s eye is on them all the
time but their faith must be tested and their characters fixed for eternity before
God will ‘remember’ his Covenant with them (see Luke 18:1-8).

Verses 6-8: Babylon’s Reward

“Render to her just as she rendered to you, and repay her double according to
her works; in the cup which she has mixed, mix double for her. 7 In the measure
that she glorified herself and lived luxuriously, in the same measure give her
torment and sorrow; for she says in her heart, 'I sit as queen, and am no widow,
and will not see sorrow.' [allusion to Isaiah 47] 8 Therefore her plagues will
come in one day, death and mourning and famine. And she will be utterly burned
with fire, for strong is the Lord God who judges her.”

"Fallen angels upon earth form confederations with evil men. In this age
antichrist will appear as the true Christ, and then the law of God will be fully made
void in the nations of our world. Rebellion against God's holy law will be fully
ripe. But the true leader of all this rebellion is Satan clothed as an angel of light.
Men will be deceived and will exalt him to the place of God, and deify him. But
Omnipotence will interpose, and to the apostate churches that unite in the
exaltation of Satan, the sentence will go forth, 'Therefore shall her plagues come
in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with
fire: for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her.'" Ellen G. White, Testimonies to
Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 62
Isaiah 47:8, 9

“Therefore hear this now, you who are given to pleasures, who dwell securely, who
say in your heart, ‘I am, and there is no one else besides me; I shall not sit as a
widow, nor shall I know the loss of children’; 9 But these two things shall come
to you in a moment, in one day: The loss of children, and widowhood. They


                                                                         Page 137 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
shall come upon you in their fullness because of the multitude of your sorceries,
for the great abundance of your enchantments.”

Babylon will be a widow because she will lose the support of her lovers, the
kings, and she will lose the support of her children, the Protestant
denominations. Both her lovers and her children will turn against her. She will
come to her end with none to help her (Daniel 11:45).

Verses 9, 10: The Lament of the Kings

“The kings of the earth who committed fornication and lived luxuriously with
her will weep and lament for her, when they see the smoke of her
burning, 10 standing at a distance for fear of her torment, saying, ‘Alas, alas, that
great city Babylon, that mighty city! For in one hour your judgment has come.’

The Greek word ‘judgment’ is krísis and refers to the execution of the judgment
rather than the sentence, which would be kríma (as used in Revelation 17:1: ‘I
will show you the judgment upon the harlot’).

The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary explains:

“Whereas chapter 17 deals primarily with the sentence against Babylon, chapter
18 is concerned with the execution of that sentence.” Ellen G. White, The Seventh-
day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 864

The expression ‘at a distance’ no doubt means that the kings now realize that
by collaborating with the harlot, they were involved in her sins and thus must
share in her plagues. When we no longer want to be associated with someone
we say that we distance ourselves from him. In other words, the fate of the
kings is inexorably bound up with hers. They did not listen to the call to come
out of her and therefore they shared in her sins and received her plagues.




                                                                         Page 138 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Verses 11-16: The Lament of the Capitalists

These verses describe the extreme anguish of the capitalist merchants when
they see that their trust in Babylon has all been in vain.

“And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys
their merchandise anymore: 12 merchandise of gold and silver, precious stones
and pearls, fine linen and purple, silk and scarlet, every kind of citron wood, every
kind of object of ivory, every kind of object of most precious wood, bronze, iron,
and marble; 13 and cinnamon and incense, fragrant oil and frankincense, wine and
oil, fine flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and bodies and
souls of men. The fruit that your soul longed for has gone from you, and all the
things which are rich and splendid have gone from you, and you shall find them
no more at all. 15 The merchants of these things, who became rich by her, will
stand at a distance for fear of her torment, weeping and wailing, 16 and saying,
‘Alas, alas, that great city that was clothed in fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and
adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls! [Revelation 17:4] 17 for in one
hour such great riches came to nothing.’

These verses describe the reaction of the merchants of the earth when
Babylon falls apart. These who weep and wail are ‘the great men of the earth’
(18:23). In that day the Amazons, the Facebooks, and the Googles of the world
will see that the accumulation of wealth at the expense of the poor has cost
them eternal life.

The wicked do not lament because they have sinned. They lament because they
have lost their riches and with their riches, eternal life. Time and again as the
plagues are being poured out we are told that the wicked refused to repent
(Revelation 16:9-11).

Ellen White describes the reason for the lamentation of the wicked:

“The rich bemoan the destruction of their grand houses, the scattering of their
gold and silver. But their lamentations are silenced by the fear that they


                                                                         Page 139 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
themselves are to perish with their idols.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy,
p. 654
“The wicked are filled with regret, not because of their sinful neglect of God and
their fellow men, but because God has conquered. They lament that the result is
what it is; but they do not repent of their wickedness. They would leave no means
untried to conquer if they could.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 654
“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having
led them to destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation
upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they
have led their hearers to make void the law of God and to persecute those who
would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers confess before the world
their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury. "We are lost!" they
cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false shepherds.
The very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful
curses upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be
raised for their destruction. The swords that were to slay God's people are now
employed to destroy their enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 655, 656
The extreme anguish of the wicked is expressed with several intense Greek
words. The first of these is klaío which is translated ‘bewail’ (used in verses 9,
11, 15, 19; see also Luke 6:25; Matthew 2:18; 27:75; Mark 16:10; Luke 8:52;
Revelation 5:5; Acts 21:13; James 5:1 [which is especially significant]).

The second word is penthéo that means ‘to mourn’ (used in verses 11, 15, 19;
see also James 4:9; Revelation 21:4).

The third word is kópto which means ‘to lament’ (used in verse 9; see also
Matthew 24:30; Luke 8:52; Revelation 1:7).

The fourth word is krázo that is translated ‘cry’. This appears word appears
twice in Revelation 18:18, 19 and it is also used to describe Jesus crying out on
the cross as He died (Matthew 27:50), a woman crying out in travail (Revelation


                                                                         Page 140 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
12:2), the disciples crying out in fear (Matthew 14:26), the demons crying out
(Mark 5:5), the wicked mob crying out for the blood of Stephen (Acts 7:57) and
the wages withheld from the laborers crying out to heaven (James 5:4).

Another sign of the affliction and angst of the wicked is the sprinkling of dust
upon their heads (cf. Joshua 7:6; Job 2:12; Lamentations 2:10; Ezekiel 27:30)

This list of merchandise includes necessities, commodities and luxuries. It
includes basically most of the items of trade in the ancient world and therefore
it represents the fact that the capitalists exerted total control of the world
economy and therefore lived in luxury.

There are 28 items mentioned on the merchandise list. Some of the items on
this list are staples and others are luxuries. The list includes items that were
common in the days of John. God spoke to the prophet in the context of his time.
If a prophet were to arise today, the prophet would speak of stocks, bonds, I-
Phones, I-Pads wide-screen televisions, fancy automobiles and mansions. The
main point is that before her fall, Babylon had a stranglehold on all the
commerce of the world and used it to oppress God’s people.

Of particular interest are the last two items on the list: ‘the bodies and souls of
men.” The word ‘bodies’ refers to the present physical life of persons while the
word ‘soul’ refers to the spiritual and future life in the kingdom. Jesus used the
two words in this way in Matthew 10:28:

“And do not fear those who kill the body [take away our present physical
existence] but cannot kill the soul [take away our eternal life]. But rather fear
Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.”

Elsewhere in Revelation the word ‘souls’ is used to describe those who are
killed for refusing to practice the false worship of Babylon (Revelation 6:9-
11). Babylon not only traded with the physical bodies of human beings but also
toyed with their very salvation and eternal destiny.



                                                                         Page 141 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Verses 17-19: The Lament of the Employees and Travelers

“Every shipmaster, all who travel by ship, sailors, and as many as trade on the
sea, stood at a distance 18 and cried out when they saw the smoke of her burning,
saying, ‘What is like this great city?’ 19 “They threw dust on their heads and
cried out, weeping and wailing, and saying, ‘Alas, alas, that great city, in which
all who had ships on the sea became rich by her wealth! For in one hour she is
made desolate.’

Verse 20: Heaven Rejoices

The scene now changes and a voice exhorts the heavenly beings to celebrate
the vengeance of God against Babylon:

“Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you holy apostles and prophets, for God has
avenged you on her!”

The theme of this verse will be picked up in Revelation 19:1-3 where a
heavenly host is singing about the judgment that fell upon the harlot and her
cohorts.

Verses 21-24: Cessation of City Life

“Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into
the sea, saying, "Thus with violence the great city Babylon shall be thrown
down, and shall not be found anymore. 22 The sound of harpists, musicians,
flutists, and trumpeters shall not be heard in you anymore. No craftsman of any
craft shall be found in you anymore, and the sound of a millstone shall not be
heard in you anymore. 23 The light of a lamp shall not shine in you anymore, and
the voice of bridegroom and bride shall not be heard in you anymore. For your
merchants were the great men of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations
were deceived. 24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and saints
[Revelation 17:6], and of all who were slain on the earth."



                                                                         Page 142 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The picture of the stone being thrown into the sea finds its backdrop in
Jeremiah 51:63, 64 where the prophet was commanded to throw a stone into
the Euphrates River:

“And it shall be, when thou hast made an end of reading this book, that thou shalt
bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of Euphrates: 64 And thou shalt say,
Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise from the evil that I will bring upon
her: and they shall be weary.”

The stone here is a metaphor for Babylon. She will be drowned in the waters of
the Euphrates. The waters will dry up like the waters of the Red Sea and then
avalanche themselves upon the apostate Babylonian system. All the activities
that characterize a city will cease when Babylon falls (verses 22, 23).

Babylon deceived the nations by her sorcery (pharmakeía). This word appears
only in this verse and in Galatians 5:20, but a cognate word pharmákon is used
in Revelation 9:21; 21:8; 22:15. The word denotes the use of magic, often
involving drugs and the casting of spells upon people. The simple fact is that
those who visit Babylon’s pharmacy are not able to think straight!

Isaiah 47:9

“But these two things shall come to you in a moment, in one day: The loss of
children, and widowhood. They shall come upon you in their fullness because of
the multitude of your sorceries, for the great abundance of your enchantments.”

The great sin of Babylon is that she persecutes God’s people and sheds their
blood. This is the picture that we find in every one of the antichrist passages
(Matthew 24:14, 15 Daniel 7:21, 25; Daniel 8:24; Daniel 11:44, 45; Revelation
13:7; Revelation 17:6; Revelation 18:20, 24).




                                                                         Page 143 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 144 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


                  Lesson #8 – Here Comes The Bride:
                         Eastern Wedding Customs

Eastern Wedding Customs in Biblical Times

The present chapter will help us better understand Revelation 19:1-9.
Wedding customs in biblical times differed from the customs today. Here are
the basic elements of an eastern wedding:

   The betrothal or engagement between the bride and the groom took
    place at the home of the bride’s father.
   At the bride’s father’s house, the groom paid the dowry.
   The groom then returned to his father’s house to prepare the home
    where he would live with his wife after the marriage (John 14:1-3).
   During the period of preparation, the bride would remain in her
    father’s house preparing for the wedding (Ephesians 5:25-27)
   In the interim, the groom sent out invitations to the guests of the
    wedding.



                                                                         Page 145 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    On occasion, the groom sent a special garment to the guests that gave
     them the right to attend the wedding as guests. Those who did not have
     the garment had no right to be in the wedding chamber.
    When the place and the bride were ready, the bridegroom would return
     to the bride’s home to take her to his father’s house where the wedding
     ceremony took place (John 14:1-3).
    The wedding reception followed in the home of the groom’s father.
The Parable of the Ten Virgins

Matthew 25:1-13

The parable of the ten virgins contains several symbols that help us understand
eastern wedding customs:

    Lighting the way to the bridal chamber (the preaching the gospel to
     invite individuals to the wedding).
    All ten virgins claimed to be believers. All had lamps and oil in their
     lamps (the early rain). However, the wise virgins had a reserve supply in
     their vessels (the latter rain).
    The five wise virgins represent genuine Christians while the five foolish
     represent counterfeit believers.
    The delay in the coming of the groom for the wedding (the delay in Jesus
     receiving the kingdom from His Father).
    The midnight cry (the final invitation for the guests to come to the
     wedding).
    The door is shut (the close of probation when all cases are final).
    The wedding (Jesus marries His church/His kingdom in heaven as a
     whole after the door closes).
    The foolish return and beg entrance but it is too late, the door is closed


                                                                         Page 146 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      (too late to prepare during the time of trouble after probation closes).
    Watch because you do not know when your Lord is coming (the coming
     of the groom for the wedding takes place in heaven while God’s people
     are still on earth.

Without a Wedding Garment

The parable of the wedding garment of Matthew 22:1-14 is in many ways
parallel to the parable of the ten virgins.

Matthew 22:1-14

“In the parable of Matthew 22 the same figure [as the ten virgins] of the
marriage is introduced, and the investigative Judgment is clearly represented as
taking place before the marriage.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 428
    Matthew 22:2, 3: The Jewish nation rejects the first invitation to the
     wedding.
    Matthew 22:4: Jesus dies, symbolized by sacrificial animals.
    Matthew 22:5, 6: After Jesus dies, the Jewish nation rejects the second
     invitation to the wedding.
    Matthew 22:7: The destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70.
    Matthew 22:8-10: The invitation now goes to the Gentiles to come to
     the wedding (all during the Christian era).
    The wedding hall is full of guests (by the proclamation of the gospel).
      “So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all
      whom they found, both bad and good. And the wedding hall was filled with
      guests.”
    The examination of the garments of the guests—the investigative
     judgment begins in 1844.
      The Groom’s Father sent out invitations to the wedding with a special

                                                                         Page 147 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      garment for each guest. Once in the wedding chamber, the Father
      examined the garments of the guests to determine if each guest wore
      the garment:
      "But when the king came in to see [theaomai: ‘examine’] the guests, he
      saw a man there who did not have on a wedding garment. 12 So he said to
      him, 'Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment?' And
      he was speechless”.
      Ellen White described the examination process:
      “Those who in the judgment are ‘accounted worthy’ will have a part in the
      resurrection of the just. Jesus said: ‘They which shall be accounted worthy
      to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead . . . are equal unto
      the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the
      resurrection.’ Luke 20:35, 36. And again He declares that ‘they that have
      done good’ shall come forth ‘unto the resurrection of life.’ John 5:29. The
      righteous dead will not be raised until after the judgment at which they
      are accounted worthy of ‘the resurrection of life.’ Hence they will not be
      present in person at the tribunal when their records are examined and
      their cases decided.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 482

   After the garments of all the guests have been examined, probation
    closes, the bride/kingdom is complete and the wedding takes place.
   Those who did not have the garment will be cast out of the wedding
    chamber into outer darkness where there is wailing and gnashing of
    teeth (Matthew 8:12; 13:41, 42; 13:47-50; 22:13, 14; 24:51; 25:30; Luke
    13:25-30).

     "Then the king said to the servants, 'Bind him hand and foot, take him away,
      and cast him into outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing
     teeth.'




                                                                         Page 148 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Wedding and Wedding Supper

In 1844 Jesus moved from the holy to the most holy place of the heavenly
sanctuary to receive the kingdom from His Father after the examination of
garments is over.

Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14

“I watched till thrones were put in place, and the Ancient of Days was seated; His
garment was white as snow, and the hair of His head was like pure wool. His
throne was a fiery flame, its wheels a burning fire; 10 A fiery stream issued and
came forth from before Him. A thousand thousands ministered to Him; ten
thousand times ten thousand stood before Him. The court was seated, and the
books were opened . . . 13 I was watching in the night visions, and behold, One like
the Son of Man, coming with the clouds of heaven! He came to the Ancient of Days,
and they brought Him near before Him. 14 Then to Him was given dominion and
glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him.
His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and His
kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed.”

Receiving the kingdom from the Father is another way of describing the
wedding between Jesus and the totality of the faithful members of His church.
The wedding clearly takes place in heaven because Jesus returns from there to
earth where the subjects of His kingdom are waiting for Him to take them to
heaven for the reception. This is clearly taught in the gospel of Luke.

Luke 12:35-37

“Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; 36 and you yourselves be like
men who wait for their master, when he will [1] return from the wedding, that
when he comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. 37 Blessed are
those servants whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. [2]
Assuredly, I say to you that he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat,
and will come and serve them.”

                                                                         Page 149 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the parable of the pounds, Jesus informed his followers that he was going to
a far country to receive the kingdom after which He would return to this
earth.

Luke 19:11, 12

“Now as they heard these things, He spoke another parable, because He was near
Jerusalem and because they thought the kingdom of God would appear
immediately. Therefore, He said: "A certain nobleman went into a far country to
receive for himself a kingdom and to return.”

The Lamb’s bride is the New Jerusalem (with all of the redeemed in it), and the
city is the capital of His kingdom, so we can know for sure that receiving the
kingdom from His Father and marrying his bride are two complementary ways
of saying the same thing.

The New Jerusalem

Revelation 21:2

“Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from
God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.”

Jesus will marry His bride and receive the kingdom before His second coming.
In the following statement, Ellen White equates Christ receiving the kingdom
with Jesus marrying His bride:

[When probation closes] “Every case had been decided for life or death. While
Jesus had been ministering in the sanctuary, the judgment had been going on for
the righteous dead, and then for the righteous living. Christ had received His
kingdom, having made the atonement for His people and blotted out their sins.
The subjects of the kingdom were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was
consummated. And the kingdom, and the greatness of the kingdom under the
whole heaven, was given to Jesus and the heirs of salvation, and Jesus was to reign
as King of kings and Lord of lords.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 280


                                                                         Page 150 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Jesus does not marry a city of brick and mortar, gold and silver. He marries
the New Jerusalem with the redeemed of all ages inside. Hebrews 12:22-24 tells
us that the names of the redeemed are written in the heavenly Jerusalem and
Philippians 3:20 tells us that our citizenship is in heaven. Jesus spoke of
Jerusalem as the city with the people in it:

Luke 19:41-44

“Now as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it, 42 saying, "If you had
known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace!
But now they are hidden from your eyes. 43 For days will come upon you when
your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and close you
in on every side, 44 and level you, and your children within you, to the ground;
and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know
the time of your visitation."

Matthew 23:38

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who
are sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen
gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing!

The Wedding Reception

Revelation 19:9

“Then he said to me, "Write: 'Blessed are those who are called to the marriage
supper of the Lamb!'" And he said to me, "These are the true sayings of God."

An angel pronounced a blessing upon the invited guests to the marriage
supper of the Lamb. The bride (the church as a whole) was ready, clothed in
fine linen, bright and pure. The marriage and the marriage supper are two
distinct yet related events.




                                                                         Page 151 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Composite Picture

#1: Those who preach the gospel are inviting the guests to the wedding and
those who genuinely accept the invitation become part of the bride
corporately and guests individually.

#2: In 1844 Jesus began the process that will culminate with Him receiving
the kingdom/marrying His bride—the church as a whole (Matthew 25:1-
13).

#3: Since 1844, the King has been examining the garments of each person
who accepted the gospel invitation to determine if they have the right to be
present for the wedding.

#4: The process of examination began with the dead that first lived on the
earth, and will end with those who are alive. These persons, as individuals,
are the invited guests to the wedding. However, faithful believers as a
whole—the church in its entirety—are Christ’s bride or kingdom.

“The parable of the wedding garment opens before us a lesson of the highest
consequence. By the marriage is represented the union of humanity with
divinity; the wedding garment represents the character which all must possess
who shall be accounted fit guests for the wedding.” Ellen G. White, Christ Object
Lessons, p. 307.
Someone might be wondering how individuals can be guests to the wedding
and yet be part of the bride at the same time. Perhaps a contemporary
illustration will help us understand the distinction between the bride and the
guests. Joseph Biden is the president of the United States. Is he the president of
rivers, lakes, mountains, empty buildings, streets and avenues? Yes, and no. He
is the president of the totality of the citizens and the territory they live in. The
totality of the citizens in all of the territory make up the country but individual
citizens are not the country. Likewise, Jesus is the husband of the totality of the
citizens of the New Jerusalem but the citizens are not the New Jerusalem.


                                                                         Page 152 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
According to 2 Corinthians 11:2 Paul engaged the entire church to Jesus:

“For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy. For I have betrothed you [plural,
the entire church] to one husband, that I may present you [plural, the entire
church] as a chaste virgin to Christ.”

Note: The NIV translates “I have promised you to one husband.” God’s Word
translates, “you're a virgin whom I promised in marriage to one man—Christ.”

Ephesians 5:25-27 describes the entire church as the bride:

Ephesians 5:25-27

“Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself
for her, 26 that He might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the
word, 27 that He might present her to Himself a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish.”

#5: Not everyone who has claimed Jesus, as Savior has been true and faithful.
Those who are found without a wedding garment in the judgment will be
removed from the book of life (Matthew 22:1-14) and when the last case has
been examined, the bride/kingdom will be without spot or wrinkle or any such
thing (Revelation 19:7-9; Ephesians 5:25-27).

#6: When every person has been found either faithful or wanting in the
judgment, the door will close and Jesus will receive the kingdom or marry His
bride. Any guests who arrive late will hear Jesus say ‘I know you not’ and will
be cast into outer darkness where there is wailing and gnashing of teeth
(Matthew 25:1-14; Revelation 22:11).

#7: After the wedding in heaven is over, a terrible time of trouble will ensue
for the bride (the church) who is still on earth, and Jesus will return to the
earth to rescue her from what appears to be certain annihilation (Daniel
11:44-12:3).



                                                                         Page 153 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
#8: Jesus will then gather his kingdom/bride and take her to the Father’s
house in heaven. When the faithful arrive in heaven, they will sit down with
Jesus to eat the marriage supper at the wedding reception (Revelation 19:9;
Matthew 8:11, 12).

“To the mind of Jesus the gladness of the wedding festivities pointed forward to
the rejoicing of that day when He shall bring home His bride to the Father's
house, and the redeemed with the Redeemer shall sit down to the marriage
supper of the Lamb.” Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 503

“Soon we heard His lovely voice again, saying, "Come, My people, you have come
out of great tribulation, and done My will; suffered for Me; come in to supper,
for I will gird Myself, and serve you." We shouted, "Alleluia! glory!" and entered
into the city. And I saw a table of pure silver; it was many miles in length, yet
our eyes could extend over it. I saw the fruit of the tree of life, the manna, almonds,
figs, pomegranates, grapes, and many other kinds of fruit.” Ellen G. White,
Counsels to the Church, p. 36

Solving a Problem

The Bible teaches that the wedding will take place in heaven before Jesus
returns. However, many modern versions (for example, the NIV and the ESV),
leave the erroneous impression that Jesus will return to earth to gather his
people to Himself after the marriage supper in heaven has ended. These
translations are confusing because other texts clearly indicate that Jesus will
literally sit with his people at the supper table in His kingdom after He has
come for them (see Matthew 8:11, 12).

So the question is this, when is the marriage supper? Does it take place before
Jesus comes for his own or after he takes them to heaven?

Let’s compare Luke 12:35-37 in the NKJV with the NIV:




                                                                         Page 154 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
NKJV:

“Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; and you yourselves be like men
who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding, that when he
comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. Blessed are those servants
whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly, I say to you that
he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come and serve them.”

NIV:

“Be dressed ready for service and keep your lamps burning, like men waiting for
their master to return from a wedding banquet, so that when he comes and
knocks they can immediately open the door for him. It will be good for those
servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. I tell you the truth,
he will dress himself to serve, will have them recline at the table and will come
and wait on them.”

It will be noticed that in the NIV (and many other contemporary versions), Jesus
returns to the earth from the heavenly wedding banquet to gather his waiting
people. In other words, the wedding banquet takes place before Jesus comes to
take His people to heaven. However, in the NKJV Jesus returns from the
wedding (not the banquet) to gather His people to take them to the banquet.
Which translation makes more sense and fits best with all the Biblical
evidence?

In Greek, the words used for marriage (gámos and gámoi) include both the
wedding and the wedding feast. In our times, we make a marked distinction
between the wedding and the reception. However, in biblical times the
covenant vow took very little time while the feast was a major community
event that would last hours and even days or weeks. Thus, the wedding was
simply a brief ceremony with a celebration that was a big feast after!

The Greek language did not have a word that distinguishes between the
wedding and the feast as we do today (such as wedding and reception)


                                                                         Page 155 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
because people perceived both to be phases of the same event. However,
although the Greeks did not have a word for the vow as distinguished from the
feast, they did have a word for the feast alone when that is what they wished
to emphasize. That word appears in Revelation 19:9 where the saints are
invited to the wedding feast.

Therefore, the process is as follows:

    Jesus will marry his kingdom/church in heaven.
    Jesus will then return from the wedding in heaven to take his waiting
     people on earth to the heavenly feast/reception.
The bride is the church or kingdom as a whole while the church members as
individuals are the guests (clearly shown in Matthew 22). The bride/kingdom
is the New Jerusalem, the dwelling place of Christ’s entire human kingdom
(Revelation 21:9, 10). Individual members of the city are not the city itself but
the residents who have homes there (John 14:1-3)

Ellen White understood this very clearly:

“I saw angels hurrying to and fro in heaven. An angel with a writer's inkhorn by
his side returned from the earth and reported to Jesus that his work was done and
the saints were numbered and sealed. Then I saw Jesus, who had been ministering
before the ark containing the Ten Commandments, throw down the censer. He
raised His hands, and with a loud voice said, ‘It is done.’ And all the angelic host
laid off their crowns as Jesus made the solemn declaration, ‘He that is unjust, let
him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is
righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.’ Ellen
G. White, Early Writings p. 279
“The marriage represents the reception by Christ of His kingdom. The Holy City,
the New Jerusalem, which is the capital and representative of the kingdom, is
called ‘the bride, the Lamb's wife.’ Said the angel to John: ‘Come hither, I will show
thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.’ ‘He carried me away in the spirit,’ says the
prophet, ‘and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of

                                                                         Page 156 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
heaven from God’ Revelation 21:9, 10. Clearly, then, the bride represents the Holy
City, and the virgins that go out to meet the bridegroom are a symbol of the
church. In the Revelation, the people of God are said to be the guests at the
marriage supper Revelation 19:9. If guests, they cannot be represented also as
the bride. Christ, as stated by the prophet Daniel, will receive from the Ancient of
Days in heaven, ‘dominion, and glory, and a kingdom;’ He will receive the New
Jerusalem, the capital of His kingdom, ‘prepared as a bride adorned for her
husband.’ Daniel 7:14; Revelation 21:2. Having received the kingdom, He will
come in His glory, as King of kings and Lord of lords, for the redemption of His
people, who are to ‘sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob,’ at His table in
His kingdom (Matthew 8:11; Luke 22:30), to partake of the marriage supper of
the Lamb. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 426

‘The proclamation, ‘Behold, the Bridegroom cometh,’ in the summer of 1844, led
thousands to expect the immediate advent of the Lord. At the appointed time the
Bridegroom came, not to the earth, as the people expected, but to the Ancient
of Days in heaven, to the marriage, the reception of His kingdom. ‘They that
were ready went in with Him to the marriage: and the door was shut.’ They were
not to be present in person at the marriage; for it takes place in heaven, while
they are upon the earth. The followers of Christ are to ‘wait for their Lord, when
He will return from the wedding’ Luke 12:36. However, they are to understand
His work, and to follow Him by faith as He goes in before God. It is in this sense
that they are said to go in to the marriage.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy,
pp. 426, 427

Notice all the Biblical texts that Ellen White uses to sustain her explanation of
the wedding and the reception:

“In both the Old and the New Testament, the marriage relation is employed to
represent the tender and sacred union that exists between Christ and His people.
To the mind of Jesus the gladness of the wedding festivities pointed forward to the
rejoicing of that day when He shall bring home His bride [the kingdom in its
entirety] to the Father's house, and the redeemed with the Redeemer shall sit

                                                                         Page 157 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
down to the marriage supper of the Lamb. He says, ‘As the bridegroom rejoiceth
over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee.’ ‘Thou shalt no more be termed
Forsaken; . . . but thou shalt be called My Delight; . . . for the Lord delighteth in
thee.’ ‘He will rejoice over thee with joy; He will rest in His love, He will joy over
thee with singing’ Isaiah 62:5, 4, margin; Zephaniah 3:17. When the vision of
heavenly things was granted to John the apostle, he wrote: ‘I heard as it were the
voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of
mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Let
us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to Him: for the marriage of the Lamb is
come, and His wife hath made herself ready." "Blessed are they which are called
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. Revelation 19:6, 7, 9.” Ellen G. White, The
Desire of Ages p. 151

One Final Illustration

The parable of the dragnet illustrates the same lessons:

Matthew 13:47-50

“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet that was cast into the sea and
gathered some of every kind, 48 which, when it was full, they drew to shore; and
they sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away. 49
So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth, separate the wicked
from among the just, 50 and cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be
wailing and gnashing of teeth."

Matthew 4:18-20

“And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon called Peter,
and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. 19
Then He said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men." 20 They
immediately left their nets and followed Him.”




                                                                         Page 158 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   The sea: Humanity.
   The fish: Persons that belong to humanity.
   The fishermen: Proclaimers of the gospel.
   The net: The gospel.
   The casting: The preaching of the gospel.
   The boat: The church (only the fish that end up in the boat are examined
    in the judgment. The cases of those who remain in the sea are examined
    later).
   Separation of the bad from the good: The investigative judgment.
   Casting out the bad: The execution of the judgment in the fire.

The Christian world rejects the heavenly judgment before the second coming
because they believe that a person’s soul goes to heaven or to hell at the
moment of death. If this were the true, all cases are decided at the moment of
death and not in a heavenly judgment before the second coming. The so called
Apostles’ Creed is also wrong when it states that Jesus will come to judge the
living and the dead. He does not come to judge; He comes to give out rewards
based on the judgment (Revelation 22:12).




                                                                         Page 159 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 160 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


  Lesson #9 – Revelation 19:1-9: Song of Praise to the King



The Literary Flow of Revelation 13:11–19:21

Revelation 13:11-18: These verses describe the final crisis over the beast, his
image and his mark. However, they do not tell us if there was a group that
remained faithful in the midst of the storm.

Revelation 14:1-5: These verses describe the group that will emerge
victorious over the beast, his image and his mark. The 144,000 stand victorious
on Mt. Zion with the seal of God on their foreheads.

Revelation 14:6-13: These verses take us back in time to the preaching of the
three angels’ messages. The three messages accompanied by the latter rain
ripen the righteous (the harvest) and the wicked (the grapes) for the close of
probation.

Revelation 14:14-17: When the harvest of the earth is ripe, Jesus sits on a
cloud and reaps it:




                                                                         Page 161 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“The tares [the grapes] and the wheat [the harvest] are to grow together until
the harvest; and the harvest is the end of probationary time.” Ellen G. White,
Christ Object Lessons, p. 71
Revelation 14:17-20: When probation closes, God’s spiritual Israel (the
harvest) is gathered inside worldwide spiritual Mt. Zion and the wicked
spiritual Babylonians (the grapes) are gathered in the worldwide spiritual
winepress outside the city intent on destroying those who are inside (see Joel
3). At the critical moment, the horse riders trample the winepress and deliver
those in the city.

Revelation 15: Takes us back to the close of probation.

Revelation 16: Describes the seven plagues after probation closes in their
order.

Revelation 17: Describes events under the fifth, sixth and seventh plagues.

Revelation 18:1-5: Takes us back to the final warning before the close of
probation.

Revelation 18:6-24: Carries us forward to the last three plagues when the
wicked lament the fall and destruction of Babylon.

Revelation 19:1-9: The 144,000 praise the Lord in heaven for judging Babylon
and avenging the blood of the martyrs. The bride is now in heaven for the
wedding reception.

Revelation 19:11-21: Goes back in time to the deliverance of God’s remnant
at the seventh plague—the battle of Armageddon.




                                                                         Page 162 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
           Chart: Sequence of Events in Revelation 14-19

The titles of the following chart should be read from left to right:

   Victory
                    Warning           Close of                        Sixth/Seventh
 Celebration                                           Plagues
                    Message          Probation                           Plagues
   Plague


    14:1-5           14:6-13          14:14-17              -            14:18-20


    15:2-4               -             15:5-8             15:1                -


       -                 -                -             16:1-21          16:12-21


       -                 -                -                 -             17:1-17


       -              18:1-5              -                 -             18:6-24


    19:1-9               -                -                 -            19:11-21



When the earth is desolated in revelation 18, the righteous dead are
resurrected, the living righteous are changed and together they ascend with
Jesus to heaven where they will sing the songs in Revelation 19:1-9. Revelation
19 is divided into two parts. The first part is verses 1-9 where we find the
heavenly celebration of the redeemed. The second part is verses 11-21 where
the rider on the white horse and his armies emerge victorious over the kings of
the earth, the beast and the false prophet.


                                                                         Page 163 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Comments on Verse 1

“After these things [the rescue of the righteous by the rider on the white
horse] I heard a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, ‘Alleluia!
[The] Salvation and [the] glory and [the] honor and [the] power belong to the
Lord our God!’”

This great multitude is composed of the end time generation who have lived
without an intercessor during the outpouring of the seven last plagues. At this
point they have been delivered from the harlot and they stand victorious in
heaven. As we shall see in verse 2, the multitude is praising God because the
Babylonian harlot has been judged and the spilt blood of the martyrs has been
avenged. This proves that the events of Revelation 19:1-9 occur after the
events of Revelation 19:11-21 and not before. The following quote provides
clear evidence that the singers in Revelation 19 are the 144,000 and not the
heavenly hosts:

“The words will soon be spoken, "Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath
of God upon the earth." One of the ministers of vengeance declares. "And I heard
the angel of the waters say, ‘Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and
shalt be, because Thou hast judged thus.’ These heavenly beings, in executing the
mandate of God, ask no questions, but do as they are bid. Jehovah of hosts, the
Lord God Almighty, the just, the true, and the holy, has given them their work to
do. With unswerving fidelity, they go forth panoplied in pure white linen, having
their breasts girded with golden girdles. And when their task is done, when the
last vial of God's wrath is poured out, they return and lay their emptied vials at
the feet of the Lord.

And the next scene is recorded, "After these things . . . I heard as it were the voice
of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty
'thunderings, saying, alleluia: for the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."
[Revelation 19:6] They sing the song of Moses and the song of the Lamb
[Revelation 15:2, 3].” Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel
Workers, p. 432

                                                                         Page 164 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Comments on Verse 2

Verse 2 explains the reason why the multitude in heaven sing that the
salvation and the glory and the honor and the power belong to the Lord their
God:

“For [because] true and righteous are His judgments, because He has judged
the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication; and He has
avenged on her the blood of His servants shed by her." (compare Revelation 6:9-
11; 17:6; 18:20, 24; Daniel 7:21, 25; 11:44)

At this point the righteous are in heaven because the harlot has been judged
and the blood of God’s saints has been avenged. The judging of the harlot took
place during the pre-Advent investigative judgment and the avenging will have
taken place during the seven last plagues, especially the sixth and seventh.
The Greek word ‘avenge’ is used in only one other place in the book of
Revelation (Revelation 6:10; see also the significant use in Luke 18:3, 5 where
the widow cries out for justice against her adversary).

Revelation 6:10 describes the martyrs that the harlot killed during the 1260
years crying out for God to judge and avenge their blood. Verse 11 then
describes another group of martyrs who will be killed during the little time of
trouble just before the close of probation (see Matthew 24:9; Revelation 20:4).
The plagues, particularly the sixth and seventh, are the avenging portion of the
martyrs’ cry.

As noted before, in order to comprehend the third angel’s message (Revelation
14:9-11) we must go back to chapter 13 where the beast, his image and his
mark are mentioned for the first time in the book. Chapter 13 describes a beast
that ruled for 42 months (Revelation 13:1-10) and during this time period it
wore out, persecuted and killed the saints of the Most High. In spite of being
savagely mowed down, the saints remained faithful to God! These martyrs of
the past are portrayed as crying out from under the altar of sacrifice at the
time of the fifth seal:

                                                                         Page 165 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“When He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had
been slain [these are the martyrs during the 1260 years] for the word of God
and for the testimony which they held. 10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying,
"How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You judge and avenge our blood on those
who dwell on the earth?" 11 Then a white robe was given to each of them; and it
was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number
of their fellow servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they were
[these are those who will be killed in the little time of trouble just before the
close of probation—see Matthew 24:9], was completed.” Revelation 6:9-11

This passage tells us that these martyrs that were persecuted and killed by
the beast in the past were given the spiritual white robes of Christ’s
righteousness as a reward for their faithfulness. Matthew 22:11, 12 explains
that the robe is assigned to the faithful before the investigative judgment. Ellen
White agrees:

“When Christ shall come, he will not change the character of any individual.
Precious, probationary time is given to be improved in washing our robes of
character, and making them white in the blood of the Lamb.” Ellen G. White,
Counsels on Education, p. 237

“The provision has been made for us to wash. The fountain has been prepared at
infinite expense, and the burden of washing rests upon us, who are imperfect
before God. The Lord does not propose to remove these spots of defilement
without our doing anything on our part. We must wash our robes in the blood
of the Lamb. We may lay hold of the merits of the blood of Christ by faith, and
through His grace and power we may have strength to overcome our errors, our
sins, our imperfections of character, and come off victorious, having washed our
robes in the blood of the Lamb. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3,
p. 183
The purpose of the investigative judgment is to reveal to the heavenly universe
that the righteous were clothed with the white robe of Christ’s righteousness



                                                                         Page 166 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
when they died. And upon their resurrection they will be given literal white
robes and they shall walk with Jesus in the kingdom (Revelation 3:4, 5).

As stated before, Revelation 6:9-11 describes two groups of martyrs. The first
group was slain by the beast during the 1260 years, received a white robe and
rests in death. Ellen White described this group of martyrs:

“In the thirteenth century was established that most terrible of all the engines of
the papacy—the Inquisition. The prince of darkness wrought with the leaders of
the papal hierarchy. In their secret councils Satan and his angels controlled the
minds of evil men, while unseen in the midst stood an angel of God, taking the
fearful record of their iniquitous decrees and writing the history of deeds too
horrible to appear to human eyes. ‘Babylon the great’ was ‘drunken with the blood
of the saints.’ [Revelation 17:6] The mangled forms of millions of martyrs cried
to God for vengeance [notice the allusion to the fifth seal] upon that apostate
power.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 59, 60
The second group will be killed in the future when the beast’s deadly wound
is healed. The martyrs of the past suffered persecution and death at the hand
of the beast but did not face persecution over the beast’s image or his mark.
The future group of martyrs will be tested over the beast, his image and his
mark:

“When our nation shall so abjure the principles of its government as to enact a
Sunday law, Protestantism will in this act join hands with popery; it will be
nothing else than giving life [which means that it must have been dead] to the
tyranny which has long been eagerly watching its opportunity to spring again
[which means that the active despotism must have existed before] into
active despotism.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 712

“When the defiance of God's law is almost universal, when his people are pressed
in affliction by their fellow men, God will interpose. Then will the voice be heard
from the graves of martyrs, represented by the souls that John saw slain for the
Word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ, which they held—then the


                                                                         Page 167 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
prayer will ascend from every true child of God: "It is time for thee, Lord, to work:
for they have made void thy law." The fervent prayers of his people will be
answered; for God loves to have his people seek him with all the heart, and depend
upon him as their deliverer. He will be sought unto to do these things for his
people, and he will arise as their protector and avenger. "Shall not God avenge
his own elect, which cry day and night unto him?” Ellen G. White, The Review and
Herald, December 21, 1897

Regarding the revival of the persecutions of the past we are told:

“It is impossible to give any idea of the experience of the people of God who shall
be alive upon the earth when celestial glory and a repetition of the persecutions
of the past are blended.” Ellen G. White, Counsels to the Church, p. 39

Revelation 20:4 describes the end time martyrs who will be slain just before
the close of probation:
“And I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was committed to them.
Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to Jesus
and for the word of God, who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and had
not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. And they lived and
reigned with Christ for a thousand years.”
Comments on Verse 3

“Again they [the 144,000] said, "Alleluia! Her [the harlot’s] smoke rises up
forever and ever!"

What is the meaning of the expression ‘forever and ever’? Revelation 20:10 tells
us that not only the harlot, but Satan as well, will be tormented in the fires of
hell ‘forever and ever.’ Although the word ‘torment’ does not appear in verse 3
it would be well at this point to take a look at the word as it appears in
Revelation 20:10 in the original language.




                                                                         Page 168 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Greek word is basanizo and there is no doubt that it refers to conscious
torment. For example, the word in Revelation 12:2 describes birth pangs.
Clearly, the woman in travail is consciously feeling the pain of childbirth.

In Matthew 8:29 the evil spirits asked Jesus whether he had come to torment
them before their time. Once again the idea of conscious psychological torment
and suffering is intended. Here the spirits are referring perhaps to their final
punishment in the fires of hell.

We find a significant use of the word in Revelation 9:5 where the scorpions
from the abyss are given the command to torment men for five months. That
conscious torture is intended is shown by the fact that the scorpions do not kill
but rather inflict pain and torment.

In Revelation 18:7, 10, 15 the word is used to describe the psychological and
spiritual pain and anguish that Babylon will feel when she falls. There can be
no doubt that conscious torment is intended in these verses.

It is clear that the word basanizo in Revelation 20:10 is graphically describing
the future conscious torment of Satan in the fires of hell. Up to here there is no
problem because the Bible consistently teaches that Satan and his angels will
be tormented in the post-millennial lake of fire (cf. Matthew 25:41). However,
a serious problem appears when we realize that Revelation 20:10 states that
this torment will last ‘forever and ever.’ Are we to understand that the pain and
anguish of Satan is to last forever, that is to say, shall never cease? Perhaps it
would be a good idea to examine the meaning of the word ‘forever’ in the New
Testament. Several non-Adventist scholars have weighed in to explain that the
word aion in itself does not necessarily mean ‘without end.’ Let’s take a look at
some of their comments.

“The word `olam [the Hebrew equivalent of the Greek aion] has related forms
in various ancient Near Eastern languages, all of which describe lengthy
duration or distant time. The idea seems to be quantitative rather than
metaphysical. Thus in Ugaritic literature, a person described as `bd `lm was a

                                                                         Page 169 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
‘permanent slave,’ the term `lm (the same as the Hebrew `olam) expressing a
period of time that could not be measured other than as lengthy duration.”

“Only in rare poetic passages such as Psalms 90:2 are temporal categories
regarded inadequate to describe the nature of God's existence as 'el `olam’. In such
an instance, the Creator is deemed to have been ‘from everlasting to everlasting’;
but even this use of `olam expresses the idea of continued, measurable existence
rather than a state of being independent of temporal considerations.” Vine's
Expository Dictionary of Biblical Words, Thomas Nelson Publishers, 1985

“The LXX generally translates ‘olam by aion which has essentially the same range
of meaning. That neither the Hebrew nor the Greek word in itself contains
the idea of endlessness is shown both by the fact that they sometimes refer to
events or conditions that occurred at a definite point in the past, and also by the
fact that sometimes it is thought desirable to repeat the word, not merely saying
‘forever,’ but ‘forever and ever.’” Allan Macrae, Theological Wordbook of the Old
Testament, volume 2, pp. 672-673. Macrae is president and professor of theology
at the Biblical School of Theology, Hatfield, Pennsylvania.

“In general, the word depicts that of which the horizon is not in view, whether
the horizon be at an infinite distance. . . or whether it lies no further that the
span of a Caesar’s life.” James Hope Moulton and George Milligan, The
Vocabulary of the Greek New Testament (London: Holder and Stoughton, 1952),
p. 16. Emphasis supplied.

“In the plural aion formulae the meaning of aion merges into that of a long but
limited stretch of time. In particular, aion in this sense signifies the time or
duration of the world, i. e., time as limited by creation and conclusion. At this
point we are confronted by the remarkable fact that in the Bible the same word
aion is used to indicate two things that are profoundly antithetical, namely,
the eternity of God and the duration of the world. This twofold sense, which
aion shares with the Hebrew ‘olam, points back to a concept of eternity in which



                                                                         Page 170 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
eternity is identified with the duration of the world.” Gerhard Kittel, Theological
Wordbook of the Old Testament, volume 1, p. 202

“In order to bring out more fully the stricter concept of eternity, religious usage
generally prefers the plural . . . But the plural presupposes knowledge of a
plurality of aiones, of ages and periods of time whose infinite series constitutes
eternity. Thus the idea of prolonged but not unending time is also present in
the aion formulae . . . The concepts of limited and unlimited time merge in the
word aion. The implied inner contradiction is brought to light in the expression
xronoi aionioi which is used as an equivalent of the plural in Romans 16:25; 2
Timothy 1:9; Titus 1:2; for eternal times is strictly a contradiction in terms.”
Gerhard Kittel, Theological Wordbook of the New Testament, volume 1, p. 202.
Emphasis supplied.

Revelation 20:10 cannot contradict Ezekiel 28:18, 19 or Malachi 4:1, 3 where
we are told that neither root (Satan) nor branch (his followers) will be left when
the fire finishes its work. Likewise, Ezekiel 28 explains that Satan will be
reduced to ashes and will never be any more. How is it possible for Satan to
never be anymore and reduced to ashes if he is burning throughout the
ceaseless ages of eternity?

Scripture must be consistent with itself. Revelation 20:10 must then mean that
the burning will be unto the ages of the ages or as the 2000 Reina-Valera
Spanish version reads: “por los siglos de los siglos” [“for the ages of the
ages”]. If certain wicked people will burn for many days for their own
individual sins, how long will Satan burn if he is to bear the ultimate
punishment for the sins of all the righteous plus all his own? Just do the math!!
Ellen White explained that Satan’s punishment will last much longer than we
generally conceive:

“Then [during the millennium] I saw thrones, and Jesus and the redeemed saints
sat upon them; and the saints reigned as kings and priests unto God. Christ, in
union with His people, judged the wicked dead, comparing their acts with the
statute book, the Word of God, and deciding every case according to the deeds

                                                                         Page 171 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
done in the body [the investigation]. Then they meted out to the wicked the
portion that they must suffer, according to their works; and it was written
against their names in the book of death [the sentence based on the evidence].
Satan also and his angels were judged by Jesus and the saints. Satan's
punishment [execution of the sentence] was to be far greater than that of those
whom he had deceived. His suffering would so far exceed theirs as to bear no
comparison with it. After all those whom he had deceived had perished, Satan
was still to live and suffer on much longer.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings pp.
290, 291
“The wicked receive their recompense in the earth (Proverbs 11:31). They ‘shall
be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts.’
Malachi 4:1. Some are destroyed as in a moment, while others suffer many days.
All are punished ‘according to their deeds.’ The sins of the righteous having been
transferred to Satan, he is made to suffer not only for his own rebellion but for
all the sins which he has caused God's people to commit. His punishment is to be
far greater than that of those whom he has deceived. After all have perished who
fell by his deceptions, he is still to live and suffer on. In the cleansing flames the
wicked are at last destroyed, root and branch—Satan the root, his followers the
branches. The full penalty of the law has been visited; the demands of justice have
been met; and heaven and earth, beholding, declare the righteousness of Jehovah.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 673
Comments on Verse 4

“And the twenty-four elders [the representatives of the worlds that never
sinned] and the four living creatures [the cherubim and seraphim] fell down
and worshiped God who sat on the throne, saying, "Amen! Alleluia!"

The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures were present and sang
when Jesus arrived in heaven at His ascension (Revelation 4:8-11; 5:8-10). As I
proved in my series on the 24 elders, the four living beings represent cherubim
and seraphim and the twenty-four elders symbolize the representatives of
the worlds that never sinned.


                                                                         Page 172 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Thus, the same beings that were present at the inauguration will be present at
the consummation. However, the unnumbered host of the redeemed will is
added to the celebration. Representatives from the entire universe will be
present when the bride is welcomed to heaven. It is significant that at this point
in history, the theme of the hymns is not creation or redemption (such as in
Revelation 4 and 5) but rather deliverance from the reign of terror of the harlot.

Comments on Verse 5

“Then a voice came from the throne, saying, Praise our God, all you His servants
and those who fear Him, both small and great!"

An unidentified voice from the throne then commands the redeemed to praise
God because He has dethroned the harlot and taken over the kingdom.

Comments on Verse 6

In response to the command, the great multitude of the redeemed sing in
thundering voices a song of praise to the Lord for taking over the kingdom:

“And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, as the sound of many
waters and as the sound of mighty thunderings, saying, "Alleluia! For the Lord
God Omnipotent reigns!”

According to Ellen White, at this point, all of the redeemed from all ages are
singing:

“They are God's jewels, and will be among that number of whom John writes, "I
heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, . . . saying, Alleluia: for the Lord
God omnipotent reigneth" (Revelation 19:6). They have washed their robes, and
made them white in the blood of the Lamb. "Therefore are they before the throne
of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne
shall dwell among them (Revelation 7:15).” Ellen G. White, That I May Know Him,
p. 123



                                                                         Page 173 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
At this point in time, the Father and Son have taken over the kingdom, the
redeemed are singing in heaven, but the wedding supper has not yet occurred.
Jesus took over the kingdom in Revelation 19:11-21 when He delivered His
people from the wrath of the kings of the earth, the beast and the false prophet

The seventh trumpet points to the same point of time when 24 elders extol God
because He has taken over the kingdom.

Revelation 11:15-17

“Then the seventh angel sounded: And there were loud voices in heaven, saying,
"The kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His
Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever!" 16 And the twenty-four elders who sat
before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshiped God, 17 saying: "We
give You thanks, O Lord God Almighty, the One who is and who was and who is to
come, because You have taken Your great power and reigned.”

Comments on Verse 7

A song is then heard in heaven announcing that the marriage supper of the
Lamb has come:

“Let us be glad and rejoice and give Him glory, for the marriage [should be
‘supper’, the identical word of verse 9] of the Lamb has come, and His wife has
made herself ready."

Ellen White explained that the bride represents the church in its entirety:

“God is the husband of His church [as a whole]. The church [as a whole] is the
bride, the Lamb's wife. Every true believer is a part of the body of Christ. Christ
regards unfaithfulness shown to Him by His people [as a church] as the
unfaithfulness of a wife to her husband. We are to remember that we are
members of Christ's body (Letter 39, 1902). Ellen G. White, Seventh-day
Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, pp. 985, 986



                                                                         Page 174 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“The church [as a whole] is the bride, the Lamb's wife. She should keep herself
pure, sanctified, holy. Never should she indulge in any foolishness; for she is the
bride of a King. Yet she does not realize her exalted position. If she understood
this, she would be all-glorious within (Letter 177, 1901).” Ellen G. White, Seventh-
day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 986

Ellen White described the marriage supper:

“Soon we heard His lovely voice again, saying, "Come, My people, you have come
out of great tribulation, and done My will; suffered for Me; come in to supper,
for I will gird Myself, and serve you." We shouted, "Alleluia! glory!" and entered
into the city. And I saw a table of pure silver; it was many miles in length, yet
our eyes could extend over it. I saw the fruit of the tree of life, the manna, almonds,
figs, pomegranates, grapes, and many other kinds of fruit.” Ellen G. White, Early
Writings p. 19

Just as a sidelight, Revelation 21, 22 appears to be ambivalent on whether there
will be a temple in the holy city after the millennium. On the one hand
Revelation tells us that the 144,000 will serve God in the temple day and night
(Revelation 7:15). However, Revelation 21:22 tells us that there is no temple in
the city. How can the 144,000 serve God day and night in the temple if there is
no temple? As usual, Ellen White helps us understand the seeming difficulty by
clarifying that there will be a temple but not within the city:

“After we beheld the glory of the temple, we went out, and Jesus left us and went
to the city. Soon we heard His lovely voice again, saying, "Come, My people, you
have come out of great tribulation, and done My will; suffered for Me; come in to
supper, for I will gird Myself, and serve you." We shouted, "Alleluia! glory!" and
entered into the city.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings p. 19

Comments on Verse 8

“And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the
fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.”


                                                                         Page 175 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Ellen White explained the meaning of the fine linen:

“By the wedding garment in the parable is represented the pure, spotless
character which Christ's true followers will possess. To the church [in its
entirety] it is given ‘that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white,’ ‘not
having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing’ Revelation 19:8; Ephesians 5:27. The
fine linen, says the Scripture, ‘is the righteousness of saints’ Revelation 19:8. It is
the righteousness of Christ, His own unblemished character, that through faith is
imparted to all who receive Him as their personal Savior.” Ellen G. White, Christ
Object Lessons, p. 310
The expression ‘righteous acts’ in Greek is dikaiómata. This stands in contrast
to the unrighteous deeds (adikémata) of the harlot (Revelation 18:5). The
crucial question here is this: Is not the robe of Christ’s righteousness, His
righteousness? Why, then, does this text tell us that the robe represents the
righteous acts of the saints? The answer is that this text is speaking about the
imparted righteousness of Christ. Ellen White described this beautifully:

“When we submit ourselves to Christ, the heart is united with His heart, the will is
merged in His will, the mind becomes one with His mind, the thoughts are brought
into captivity to Him; we live His life. This is what it means to be clothed with the
garment of His righteousness. Then as the Lord looks upon us He sees, not the fig-
leaf garment, not the nakedness and deformity of sin, but His own robe of
righteousness, which is perfect obedience to the law of Jehovah.” Ellen G. White,
Christ Object Lessons, p. 311
Some people think that justification is the work of God and sanctification is our
own work. However, this is a deadly misconception. The righteous acts of the
saints were not their own doing. They were the outflowing of the righteousness
of Christ in their practical lives:

Isaiah 26:12

“LORD, You will establish peace for us, for You have also done all our works in
us.”


                                                                         Page 176 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Philippians 2:12-13

“Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only,
but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and
trembling; 13 for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good
pleasure.”

Ephesians 2:8-10

“For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it
is the gift of God, 9 not of works, lest anyone should boast. 10 For we are His
workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared
beforehand that we should walk in them.”

Comments on Verse 9

“Then he said to me, "Write: 'Blessed are those who are called [invited] to the
marriage supper of the Lamb!'" And he said to me, "These are the true sayings
of God."

The following quotations explain the distinction between the [1] examination
of the guests, [2] the closing of the door, [3] the wedding, [4] and the wedding
reception:

‘The parable of the wedding garment opens before us a lesson of the highest
consequence. By the marriage is represented the union of humanity with
divinity; the wedding garment represents the character which all must possess
who shall be accounted fit guests for the wedding.” Ellen G. White, Christ Object
Lessons, p. 307
“In the parable of Matthew 22 the same figure of the marriage is introduced, and
the investigative judgment is clearly represented as taking place before the
marriage. Previous to the wedding the king comes in to see the guests, to see
if all are attired in the wedding garment, the spotless robe of character washed
and made white in the blood of the Lamb. Matthew 22:11; Revelation 7:14 He who


                                                                         Page 177 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
is found wanting is cast out, but all who upon examination are seen to have the
wedding garment on are accepted of God and accounted worthy of a share [a
portion] in His kingdom and a seat upon His throne. This work of examination of
character, of determining who are prepared for the kingdom of God, is that of the
investigative judgment, the closing of work in the sanctuary above.

When the work of investigation shall be ended, when the cases of those who in all
ages have professed to be followers of Christ have been examined and decided,
then, and not till then, probation will close, and the door of mercy will be shut.
Thus in the one short sentence, "They that were ready went in with Him to the
marriage: and the door was shut," we are carried down through the Savior's final
ministration, to the time when the great work for man's salvation shall be
completed.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 428

“The coming of the bridegroom, here brought to view [in the parable of the ten
virgins], takes place before the marriage. The marriage represents the
reception by Christ of His kingdom [which can only take place when the
judgment has revealed who are truly subjects of His kingdom]. The Holy City,
the New Jerusalem, which is the capital and representative of the kingdom, is
called "the bride, the Lamb's wife." Said the angel to John: "Come hither, I will
show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife." "He carried me away in the spirit," says the
prophet, "and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of
heaven from God" Revelation 21:9, 10. Clearly, then, the bride represents the
Holy City [with the names of humanity or the redeemed in it], and the virgins
[as a group] that go out to meet the bridegroom are a symbol of the church. In
the Revelation the people of God are said to be the guests at the marriage supper.
Revelation 19:9. If guests, they cannot be represented also as the bride. Christ, as
stated by the prophet Daniel, will receive from the Ancient of Days in heaven,
‘dominion, and glory, and a kingdom;’ He will receive the New Jerusalem, the
capital of His kingdom, ‘prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.’ Daniel
7:14; Revelation 21:2. Having received the kingdom, He will come in His glory,
as King of kings and Lord of lords [Revelation 19:11-21], for the redemption of


                                                                         Page 178 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
His people, who are to ‘sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob,’ at His table
in His kingdom (Matthew 8:11; Luke 22:30), to partake of the marriage supper
of the Lamb.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp.426, 427

Comments on Verse 10

After an angel assures John that the words that he has spoken are true, John
falls at his feet to worship him:

“And I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, "See that you do not do
that! I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren who have the testimony of
Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy."

Ellen White remarked about this encounter of the angel with John:

“The angel from heaven came to John in majesty, his countenance beaming with
the excellent glory of God. He revealed to John scenes of deep and thrilling interest
in the history of the church of God and brought before him the perilous conflicts
which Christ's followers were to endure. John saw them passing through fiery
trials, made white and tried, and, finally, victorious overcomers, gloriously saved
in the kingdom of God. The countenance of the angel grew radiant with joy and
was exceeding glorious, as he showed John the final triumph of the church of God.
As the apostle beheld the final deliverance of the church, he was carried away
with the glory of the scene and with deep reverence and awe fell at the feet of
the angel to worship him. The heavenly messenger instantly raised him up and
gently reproved him, saying, "See thou do it not: I am thy fellow servant, and of
thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of
Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 230

[In Revelation 22] The angel then showed John the heavenly city with all its
splendor and dazzling glory, and he, enraptured and overwhelmed, and forgetful
of the former reproof of the angel, again fell to worship at his feet. Again the
gentle reproof was given, ‘See thou do it not for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy
brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship


                                                                         Page 179 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
God.’ Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 230, 231

Revelation 12:17 affirms that Satan hates the final remnant because they keep
the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. However,
the text does not define meaning of the expression ‘testimony of Jesus’.
However, Revelation 19:10 explains that the ‘testimony of Jesus’ is ‘the spirit of
prophecy’. Revelation 22:9 completes the picture by telling us that those who
have the testimony of Jesus are prophets. This means that the remnant church
would have a prophet in their midst. The words that the angel spoke are true
because they are the testimony of Jesus.




                                                                         Page 180 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


Lesson #10 – Revelation 19:11-21: The Battle of Armageddon


It is important to keep in mind that the events of Revelation 19:11-21 transpire
before the events in Revelation 19:1-10. That is to say, Revelation 19:1-10 is the
climax and Revelation 19:11-21 describes the events that led up to that climax.
Also, Revelation 19:11-21 is a further description of the battle of Armageddon
under the seventh plague.

Armageddon is but the final battle of the war that began in heaven with Lucifer.
At that time, Lucifer attacked God’s law and aspired to receive the homage of
the heavenly hosts that belonged only to Christ. Thus, the controversy is really
between Christ and Satan. It can hardly be a coincidence that Lucifer’s rebellion
is described in Isaiah 14 as an oracle against Babylon:

Isaiah 14:12-14

“How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are cut
down to the ground, you who weakened the nations! 13 For you have said in your
heart: 'I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I
will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest sides of the north; 14
I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High.'”

                                                                         Page 181 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“He began to insinuate doubts concerning the laws that governed heavenly
beings, intimating that though laws might be necessary for the inhabitants of the
worlds, angels, being more exalted, needed no such restraint, for their own
wisdom was a sufficient guide.” Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 37

Ellen White wrote about the final stage of this long-standing controversy that
began in heaven:

“The last great conflict between truth and error is but the final struggle of the
long-standing controversy concerning the law of God. Upon this battle we are
now entering—a battle between the laws of men and the precepts of Jehovah,
between the religion of the Bible and the religion of fable and tradition.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 582
In the Old Testament there are many prophets who wrote about the great
eschatological war that the wicked will wage against God’s people in the future
(Joel 2:32, chapter 3; Ezekiel 38, 39; Zechariah 12, 14; Daniel 11:40-45 and 12:1,
2; Jeremiah 25:30-38; Psalms 2, 18). All of these prophecies describe the same
war and teach that God will ultimately bring salvation at the most critical hour.
Although there are diversities in the details, all these prophecies refer to the
same final apocalyptic climax to the moral conflict between good and evil.

The parties in this war are God, His angels and His followers against Satan his
angels and his followers. The war is not between Muslims and Christians, East
and West, Chinese and American. The war is between the righteous and the
unrighteous.

We must understand that at its core, this great controversy is between Christ
and Satan. We must also remember that the prophecies that once applied to
literal Israel in the literal ‘holy land’ now apply spiritually to the global church,
the body of Christ. It is erroneous to teach that these prophecies will find a
literal fulfillment with literal Israel in a literal geographical location. When the
New Testament writers refer to these prophecies, they remove the ethnic and



                                                                         Page 182 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
geographical limitations and apply the language symbolically and globally to
the church.

The New Testament apocalyptic fulfillment of these prophecies is in passages
such as Matthew 24, Mark 13, Luke 21, 2 Thessalonians 2, Revelation 12:17,
Revelation 13:1-10; 14:6-20; 13:11-18; 16:13-16 and chapters 17 and 19.

Hosea, Jeremiah, Ezekiel describe Israel (the church of God) as God’s bride.
Likewise, the woman in Revelation 12 represents the history of God’s faithful
church in all ages since God gave the gospel promise in Genesis 3:15. God has
only one church throughout both Testaments. Revelation 12:17, which is the
final fulfillment of Genesis 3:15, is further developed in Revelation 13:11-18;
14:6-20; 16:13-16 and 19:11-21. In the very last remnant of time, the kings of
the earth and the whole world will make war on the Lamb in the person of His
witnesses (7T, p. 182) and the Lamb will gain the victory. However, the Lamb
will not be alone. With him will be the called, and chosen and faithful (17:14).

Revelation 20:8, 9 takes us beyond the second coming to post-millennial events
when Gog and Magog will muster all the wicked for the final stage of the war
against God and His people. At this point, the literal New Jerusalem will be on
earth and Christ and His followers will be inside. Satan and his followers will be
outside. At this point Christ will overcome His enemies in the second and final
stage of Armageddon.

“Here is the great issue. Here are the two great powers confronting each other,
the Prince of God, Jesus Christ, and the prince of darkness, Satan. Here comes the
open conflict. There are but two classes in the world, and every human being will
range under one of the two banners, the banner of the prince of darkness or the
banner of Jesus Christ.” Ellen G. White, Letter 38, 1894.

“Satan will excite indignation against the humble minority who conscientiously
refuse to accept popular customs and traditions. Men of position and reputation
will join with the lawless and the vile to take counsel against the people of God.
Wealth, genius, education, will combine to cover them with contempt.

                                                                         Page 183 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Persecuting rulers, ministers, and church members will conspire against them.
With voice and pen, [also social media, television] by boasts, threats, and
ridicule, they will seek to overthrow their faith. By false representations and
angry appeals, they will stir up the passions of the people. Not having a ‘Thus
saith the Scriptures’ to bring against the advocates of the Bible Sabbath, they will
resort to oppressive enactments to supply the lack. To secure popularity and
patronage, legislators will yield to the demand for a Sunday law. . . . On this
battlefield comes the last great conflict of the controversy between truth and
error.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, pp. 450, 451.
“Two great opposing powers are revealed in the last great battle. On one side
stands the Creator of heaven and earth. All on His side bear His signet. They are
obedient to His commands. On the other side stands the prince of darkness, with
those who have chosen apostasy and rebellion.” Ellen G. White, The Review and
Herald, May 7, 1901
Comments on Verse 11:

“Now I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse and He who sat on him
was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and makes war.”

“This horse tells of royalty, judgment, and war. His white color tells of
righteousness and justice. Light is the robe of divine majesty, and white is the
color that most attaches to Christ in all these judgment scenes. When the first seal
broke he rode a white horse; when the great harvest is reaped he sits upon a
white cloud; and at the end of the thousand years he sits upon a white throne;
and so here he is seated on the white steed of battle, for ‘in righteousness doth he
makes war.’ Joseph Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition of the Book of Revelation,
Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006.

We are reminded of the cry of the martyrs in Revelation 6:10 where they
clamored for a holy and true God to judge and avenge them over their
adversaries. We are also reminded of the widow who cried out to the judge for
justice and vengeance over her adversary (Luke 18:1-9). When Jesus comes on


                                                                         Page 184 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the white horse to rescue His people, He will prove that, as the covenant
keeping God, He is faithful and true to His word. As He was faithful and true in
delivering Daniel and his three friends from certain death, He will deliver His
beloved saints.

This passage describes the next to last stage of the war that began in heaven.
The final stage will be at the end of the millennium. The battle of Armageddon
does not actually take place during the sixth plague. The sixth plague merely
prepares the way for the battle of Armageddon during the seventh plague.
Revelation 19:11-21 describes the two armies. Christ and His angels are on one
side and the kings of the earth, the beast and the false prophet are on the other.
Ellen White linked Revelation 19:11-21 with the seventh plague—the actual
battle of Armageddon:

“We need to study the pouring out of the seventh vial. The powers of evil will not
yield up the conflict without a struggle. But Providence has a part to act in the
battle of Armageddon. When the earth is lighted with the glory of the angel of
Revelation eighteen, the religious elements, good and evil, will awake from
slumber, and the armies of the living God will take the field.” Ellen G. White,
Maranatha, p. 257

“The battle of Armageddon is soon to be fought. He on whose vesture is written
the name, King of kings and Lord of lords, leads forth the armies of heaven on
white horses, clothed in fine linen, clean and white”. [Revelation 19:11-16] Ellen
G. White, Last Day Events, p. 251

“The battle of Armageddon will be fought. And that day must find none of us
sleeping. Wide-awake, we must be, as wise virgins having oil in our vessels with
our lamps. The power of the Holy Ghost must be upon us and the Captain of the
Lord's host will stand at the head of the angels of heaven to direct the battle.”
Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, vol. 3, p. 426




                                                                         Page 185 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Comments on Verse 12

“His eyes were like a flame of fire, and on His head were many crowns. He had a
name written that no one knew except Himself.”

At the beginning of the book of Revelation (1:14) the eyes of Jesus were as
flames of fire, penetrating to detect sin. The eyes of fire in Revelation 1 are
remedial. However, in Revelation 19, those who did not allow the eyes of fire to
detect sin will suffer its consequences:

“To sin, wherever found, ‘our God is a consuming fire.’ Hebrews 12:29. In all who
submit to His power the Spirit of God will consume sin. But if men cling to sin,
they become identified with it. Then the glory of God [which is like as
consuming fire—Exodus 24:17; Hebrews 12:28, 29], which destroys sin, must
destroy them.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages p. 107
At the second coming the wicked will hide in the caves and in the rocks of the
mountains begging to be hidden from those searching eyes (Revelation 6:16).
On the other hand, God’s people will exclaim, ‘Lo, this is our God, we have
waited for Him and He will save us.’

As Jesus rides the white horse, He has many crowns on His head. The word
‘crown’ here is diadémata where we get the word ‘diadem’. This is the royal
crown of a conquering king. The number 7 indicates that Jesus is the King of
all the world in contrast to the seven crowns on the heads of the dragon
usurper (Revelation 12:3). Ellen White wrote that Jesus actually has seven
crowns, one within the other.

“We gathered about Jesus, and just as He closed the gates of the city, the curse was
pronounced upon the wicked. The gates were shut. Then the saints used their
wings and mounted to the top of the wall of the city. Jesus was also with them; His
crown looked brilliant and glorious. It was a crown within a crown, seven in
number.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings p. 53, 54




                                                                         Page 186 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
When Jesus gallops on the horse He has taken off his priestly attire and has
clothed Himself with what Ellen White refers to as His ‘most kingly robes’
(EW, p. 281) or ‘the garments of vengeance’ (EW, p. 36). Ellen White described
the sequence of events from the sealing till Jesus changes His garments:

“I saw angels hurrying to and fro in heaven. An angel with a writer's inkhorn by
his side returned from the earth and reported to Jesus that his work was done, and
the saints were numbered and sealed. Then I saw Jesus, who had been
ministering before the ark containing the Ten Commandments, throw down the
censer. He raised His hands, and with a loud voice said, "It is done." And all the
angelic host laid off their crowns as Jesus made the solemn declaration, "He that
is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he
that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
Every case had been decided for life or death. While Jesus had been ministering
in the sanctuary, the judgment had been going on for the righteous dead, and then
for the righteous living. Christ had received His kingdom, having made the
atonement for His people and blotted out their sins. The subjects of the kingdom
were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was consummated. And the kingdom,
and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, was given to Jesus and
the heirs of salvation and Jesus was to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords.

 As Jesus moved out of the most holy place, I heard the tinkling of the bells upon
His garment; and as He left, a cloud of darkness covered the inhabitants of the
earth. There was then no mediator between guilty man and an offended God.
While Jesus had been standing between God and guilty man, a restraint was upon
the people; but when He stepped out from between man and the Father, the
restraint was removed [the winds were released] and Satan had entire
control of the finally impenitent. It was impossible for the plagues to be poured
out while Jesus officiated in the sanctuary; but as His work there is finished, and
His intercession closes, there is nothing to stay the wrath of God, and it breaks
with fury upon the shelterless head of the guilty sinner, who has slighted salvation
and hated reproof. In that fearful time, after the close of Jesus' mediation, the


                                                                         Page 187 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
saints were living in the sight of a holy God without an intercessor. Every case
was decided, every jewel numbered. Jesus tarried a moment in the outer
apartment [the holy place] of the heavenly sanctuary, and the sins which had
been confessed while He was in the most holy place were placed upon Satan, the
originator of sin, who must suffer their punishment.

Then I saw Jesus lay off His priestly attire and clothe Himself with His most
kingly robes. Upon His head were many crowns, a crown within a crown.
Surrounded by the angelic host, He left heaven. The plagues were falling upon
the inhabitants of the earth.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings pp. 279-281
Then I saw that Jesus would not leave the most holy place until every case was
decided either for salvation or destruction, and that the wrath of God could not
come until Jesus had finished His work in the most holy place, laid off His priestly
attire, and clothed Himself with the garments of vengeance.

Then Jesus will step out from between the Father and men, and God will keep
silence no longer, but pour out His wrath on those who have rejected His truth. I
saw that the anger of the nations, the wrath of God, and the time to judge the
dead, were separate and distinct, one following the other; also that Michael had
not stood up, and that the time of trouble, such as never was, had not yet
commenced. The nations are now getting angry, but when our High Priest has
finished His work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of
vengeance, and then the seven last plagues will be poured out.” Ellen G. White,
Christian Experience and Teaching, p. 100.

What is the name that no one knows except Himself? Ellen White explained
that the Father has given Jesus the name Jehovah (The Signs of the Times, May
3, 1899). Jesus already had this name in the Old Testament (Exodus 23:20) but
when he came to this earth it was given to him again (‘you shall call His name
Jesus’—which means ‘Jehovah saves’) and when He ascended to heaven the
Father gave it to Him again (Philippians 2:9-11).




                                                                         Page 188 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
When Jesus comes the second time He will come with a new revelation of the
name. At each of these stages Jesus reveals a new manifestation of the name,
‘Jehovah saves’. The second coming is a new character manifestation of Jehovah
not seen in the Old Testament or in the New. No one up to that point has known
Jesus as the heavenly warrior who comes to save His people from a global death
decree.

We find a similar idea in Revelation 15:2 where only the 144,000 can learn the
Song of Moses and the Lamb. This does not mean that no one except the
144,000 can understand the lyrics of the song. It means that no one can sing it
like the 144,000 because only they have gone through the experience.

For example, I am sure that someone today could write music to the lyrics of
the Song of Moses in Exodus 15. However, could we sing it like the Israelites did
when God buried the Egyptians in the Red Sea? Of course not because it is not
the song of our experience!

We find a similar example in the song of redemption that the 24 elders and the
four living beings sing in Revelation 5:8-10. How can the elders and the living
beings sing that God has redeemed them ‘out of every tribe and tongue and
people and nation’, and that they ‘will reign upon the earth’? Ellen White
answers:

Holy angels will join in the song of the redeemed. Though they cannot sing
from experimental knowledge, "He hath washed us in His own blood,
and redeemed us unto God," yet they understand the great peril from which the
people of God have been saved. Were they not sent to lift up for them a standard
against the enemy? They can fully sympathize with the glowing ecstasy of those
who have overcome by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony
(Letter 79, 1900). Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7,
p. 922
These examples help us understand what appears to be an insurmountable
problem in the Old Testament. Exodus 6:1-6 tells us that the patriarchs did not


                                                                         Page 189 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
know the name Jehovah even though elsewhere the Bible clearly indicates that
they did. God introduced Himself to Abraham as Jehovah even before He
introduced Himself as El Shaddai (Genesis 17:1; 22:14). Jacob knew the name
as well as Isaac (Genesis 35:11; 28:3). However, they knew Him as the God of
the covenant promises not in the character of the one who fulfills those
promises.

The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary explains:

“The ‘name written, that no man knew, but he himself' (v. 12) represents the
heretofore unknown role in which He now appears, as the avenger of His people
(see on chapter 16:1). In the performance of this ‘strange’ work (Isa. 28:21) He
acts in a role new to both men and angels.” Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist
Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 874
Concerning the name in Exodus 6:3 the Commentary explains:

“God was about to reveal Himself more fully than in the past, delivering His
people with a ‘strong hand’ (Ex. 6:1), actually taking them to Himself for a people
(v. 7), establishing His covenant with them, and giving them the land of Canaan
(v. 4). This being true, it seems that in verse 3 God must refer to the new meaning
that the experience of deliverance would bring to the name rather than to the
name itself (see vs. 1-7).” Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible
Commentary, vol. 1, p. 523.
Comments on Verse 13

“He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and His name is called The Word
of God.”

Ranko Stefanovic in his commentary on Revelation suggests that the blood on
the garment of Jesus is the blood of God’s people that Christ comes to avenge.
However, Isaiah 63:1-6; Joel 3:9-12 and Revelation 14:20 gives us a different
interpretation of the symbolism. The blood that the garments of Jesus are
dipped in is not His own but that of His enemies. As he tramples the grapes in


                                                                         Page 190 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the winepress, the juice splatters on his garments and it looks like blood.

Revelation 14 explains that the harvest of the earth is gathered inside the Holy
City and the grapes are gathered outside. Revelation 19:14 identifies the riders
of the horses as the armies of heaven and their garments are splattered with
the blood of the wicked who are in the winepress outside the city.

Comments on Verse 14

“And the armies in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, followed Him
on white horses.”

Ranko Stefanovic identifies the armies that accompany Jesus as God’s people.
However, the Spirit of Prophecy clearly identifies these armies as the angels
who accompany Jesus from heaven at His second coming:

“Soon there appears in the east a small black cloud, about half the size of a man's
hand. It is the cloud which surrounds the Savior and which seems in the distance
to be shrouded in darkness. The people of God know this to be the sign of the Son
of man. In solemn silence they gaze upon it as it draws nearer the earth, becoming
lighter and more glorious, until it is a great white cloud, its base a glory like
consuming fire, and above it the rainbow of the covenant. Jesus rides forth as a
mighty conqueror. Not now a ‘Man of Sorrows,’ to drink the bitter cup of shame
and woe, He comes, victor in heaven and earth, to judge the living and the dead.
‘Faithful and True,’ ‘in righteousness He doth judge and make war.’ And ‘the
armies which were in heaven’ follow Him (Revelation 19:11, 14). With anthems of
celestial melody, the holy angels, a vast, unnumbered throng, attend Him on
His way. The firmament seems filled with radiant forms— ‘ten thousand times
ten thousand, and thousands of thousands.’ No human pen can portray the
scene; no mortal mind is adequate to conceive its splendor. ‘His glory covered the
heavens, and the earth was full of His praise. And His brightness was as the light.’
Habakkuk 3:3,4. As the living cloud comes still nearer, every eye beholds the
Prince of life. No crown of thorns now mars that sacred head; but a diadem of
glory rests on His holy brow. His countenance outshines the dazzling brightness
of the noonday sun. ‘And He hath on His vesture and on His thigh a name written,

                                                                         Page 191 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
King of kings, and Lord of lords.’ Revelation 19:16” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 640, 641.
If we remember, the sixth plague has the purpose of preparing the way for the
kings that come from the east (Revelation 16:12). The rider on the white horse
and the armies of heaven are the kings that come from the east.

Comments on Verse 15

“Now out of His mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it He should strike the
nations. And He Himself will rule them with a rod of iron. He Himself treads the
winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.” (Revelation 14:9-11, 18-
20; see also Isaiah 11:3, 4)

The sword is a symbol of the Word of God:

“Out of His mouth issues a sharp, two-edged sword, an emblem of the power of
His word.” The Sanctified Life, p. 77

Like the eyes of fire, the sword from the mouth appears also in Revelation 1:16.
However, in Revelation 1:16 the eyes are remedial whereas here they are
retributive (see Psalm 149:6-9). The sword that could have cut out sin and
saved the sinner now destroys the sinner who has identified with sin.

The bottom line is that on the one hand the fire can consume sin, the sword
can cut out evil from the heart, the stone can break a selfish heart or on the
other hand, the fire can consume the sinner, the sword can slay him and the
stone can crush him (Matthew 21:44). It all depends on the person’s choice.

Hebrews 4:12, 13 explains the relationship between the eyes and the sword:

Hebrews 4:12, 13

“For the word of God is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged
sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow,
and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. 13 And there is no


                                                                         Page 192 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
creature hidden from His sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of
Him to whom we must give account.”

William Miller was a powerful preacher of the Word. L. D. Fleming attended
one of Miller’s meetings in Portland, Maine and compared his message with a
sword:

"Things here are moving powerfully. Last evening about two hundred requested
prayer and the interest seems constantly increasing. The whole city seems
agitated. Bro. Miller's lectures have not the least effect to frighten people; they are
far from it. The great alarm is among those who do not come near them. Many
who stay away and oppose, seem excited, and perhaps alarmed; but those who
candidly hear are far from excitement or alarm.

"The interest awakened by his lectures is of the most deliberate and dispassionate
kind; though this is the greatest revival I ever saw, yet there is the least
passionate excitement about it. It seems to take a deep hold on the main part of
the community. What produces the effect is this: Bro. Miller simply takes the
sword of the Spirit, unsheathed, and lays its sharp edge on the naked heart, and
it cuts; that is all. Before the edge of this mighty weapon, infidelity falls and
Universalism withers; false foundations vanish, and Babel's merchants wonder. It
seems to me that this must be a little the nearest to apostolic revivals of anything
that modern times have witnessed." Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald,
November 25, 1884
Ellen White also used the sword metaphor in its redemptive meaning:

“The worldliness in the church, which is the great cause of spiritual death, is
attributable to the influence of selfish, ease-loving members. The progress of this
deadly malady must be checked. The surgeon's knife cuts deep when it is
necessary to remove festering, pestilent matter; so the Word of God, sharper
than any two-edged sword, must be made to cut to the heart, or the evil will never
be removed.” Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, May 17, 1883



                                                                         Page 193 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
If we fail to allow the sword to cut out the pestilential matter from our character
now, it will smite us when Jesus comes.

In order to fully understand the winepress language in Revelation 19:15, we
must go back to Revelation 14:14-20. Let’s review the main structure of chapter
14:

    The 144,000 stand on Mt. Zion victorious after the crisis over the beast,
     his image and his mark in chapter 13 (14:1-5).
    The three angels’ messages are proclaimed with the power of the latter
     rain (14:6-12).
    The messages polarize the world into two groups, the harvest and the
     grapes (14:14-18).
    Jesus harvests the righteous and they are gathered in spiritual Jerusalem
     (14:15, 16; see Joel 2:32; 3:9-12).
    Jesus then harvests the wicked and throws them into the winepress
     outside spiritual Jerusalem (14:18, 19).
    Horses trample the winepress and blood splatters on the horses (14:20)
Revelation 19:15 expands upon Revelation 14:14-20. In Revelation 14, Jesus
gathers the harvest of the earth (the 144,000) into the city. Then He harvests
the grapes (the wicked) and casts them into the winepress outside the city.
Horse riders then trample the grapes in the winepress outside the city.

At this point we do not know who is riding the horses that trample the
winepress. However, in Revelation 19:15 we discover that the horses that
trample the winepress are ridden by Christ and the heavenly armies of angels.

One might ask why the wicked were gathered in the winepress outside the city.
Did they come there on vacation? Of course not. Clearly they gathered there to
destroy those who are inside the spiritual city. Later on in the chapter (verses
19, 20) we will find that the kings of the earth, the beast and the false prophets
gathered there to deliver a death blow to the 144,000.



                                                                         Page 194 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Jeremiah 25:30-38 also stands in the background of Revelation 14 and 19.
However, Jeremiah adds that the false shepherds, in particular, will be
punished in the winepress:

Jeremiah 25:30-38

“Therefore prophesy against them all these words, and say to them: 'The Lord will
roar from on high, and utter His voice from His holy habitation [the voice at the
seventh plague—Revelation 16:17]; He will roar mightily against His fold. He
will give a shout [1Thessalonians 4:16] as those who tread the grapes,
[Revelation 14:17-19; 19:15] against all the inhabitants of the earth. 31 A noise
will come to the ends of the earth —for the Lord has a controversy with the
nations; He will plead His case with all flesh. He will give those who are wicked
to the sword,' says the Lord." 32 Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Behold, disaster shall
go forth from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the
farthest parts of the earth. 33 "And at that day the slain of the Lord shall be from
one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth. They shall not be
lamented, or gathered, or buried; they shall become refuse on the ground. 34
"Wail, shepherds, and cry! Roll about in the ashes, you leaders of the flock! For
the days of your slaughter and your dispersions are fulfilled; you shall fall like a
precious vessel. 35 And the shepherds will have no way to flee, nor the leaders
of the flock to escape. 36 A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and a wailing of
the leaders to the flock will be heard. For the Lord has plundered their pasture,
37 And the peaceful dwellings are cut down because of the fierce anger of the Lord.

38 He has left His lair like the lion; For their land is desolate because of the

fierceness of the Oppressor, and because of His fierce anger."

Verse 15 alludes to Psalm 2. The original historical setting of this Psalm is that
David has just been crowned king of Israel and the nations are plotting and
colluding to overthrow him. However, on a broader scale, the Psalm is
messianic and points to the installation of Christ as King of the kingdom of grace
after His resurrection. Let’s first consider the content of the Psalm followed by
the messianic fulfillment.

                                                                         Page 195 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Verses 1-3 describe the rage of the kings and rulers of the earth colluding
against God and His Anointed:

“Why do the nations rage, and the people plot a vain thing? 2 The kings of the
earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord and
against His Anointed, saying, 3 ‘Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away
Their cords from us.’

Verses 4-6 describe the reaction of God the Father to the plotting of the rulers
against His Anointed:

“He who sits in the heavens shall laugh; the Lord shall hold them in derision. 5
Then He shall speak to them in His wrath, and distress them in His deep
displeasure: 6 "Yet I have set My King on My holy hill of Zion."

In verse 7 the Anointed one speaks to his Father:

“I will declare the decree: The Lord has said to Me, 'You are My Son, today I have
begotten You.”

This begetting of the Anointed one by the Father cannot refer to His physical
birth. Clearly, the psalmist uses the word ‘begotten’ in a metaphorical sense to
describe the moment when the Anointed is installed as King on Mt. Zion.

In antiquity, the day of a king’s enthronement was considered the day of his
rebirth because from that point on he began to count his regnal years. Kings
also adopted a new name upon their accession to the throne just as a newborn
baby is given a name by his parents (see Stephen D. Ricks and John J. Sroke,
King, Coronation, and Temple: Enthronement Ceremonies in History pp. 236-
271.

In verses 8, 9 the Father promises His Son the nations as His inheritance and
the ends of the earth as His possession:

“Ask of Me, and I will give You the nations for Your inheritance, and the ends of
the earth for Your possession. 9 You [the Son] shall break them [the plotting

                                                                         Page 196 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
kings, judges and rulers] with a rod of iron; you shall dash them to pieces like
a potter's vessel.'"

In verses 10-12 the Father counsels the kings to treat His Son with respect:

“Now therefore, be wise, O kings; be instructed, you judges of the earth. 11 Serve
the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. 12 Kiss the Son, lest He be angry,
and you perish in the way, when His wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all
those who put their trust in Him.”

This messianic Psalm was partially fulfilled when Pilate, Herod, the Gentiles
and the people of Israel colluded against Christ, the Lord’s Anointed. When the
Jewish Sanhedrin persecuted Peter and John and forbade them to preach in the
name of Jesus, they quoted Psalm 2:1, 2.

Acts 4:24-30

“So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said:
‘Lord, You are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea, and all that is in
them, 25 who by the mouth of Your servant David have said: 'Why did the nations
rage, and the people plot vain things? 26 The kings of the earth took their stand,
and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ.'
[Psalm 2:1, 2] 27 ‘For truly against Your Holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed,
both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were
gathered together 28 to do whatever Your hand and Your purpose determined
before to be done. 29 Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to Your servants
that with all boldness they may speak Your word, 30 by stretching out Your hand
to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of Your Holy
Servant Jesus."

It is important to note that at this point, Peter and John only quote Psalm 2:1, 2
because at this point Jesus had not yet been installed as King and Priest of the
kingdom of grace. The apostle Paul described the resurrection of Jesus and His
installation as King and High Priest as the day the Father metaphorically begot


                                                                         Page 197 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Him:

Acts 13:33-35

“God has fulfilled this for us their children, in that He has raised up Jesus. As it is
also written in the second Psalm: 'You are My Son, today I have begotten You.' 34
And that He raised Him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, He has
spoken thus: 'I will give you the sure mercies of David.' 35 Therefore He also says
in another Psalm: 'You will not allow Your Holy One to see corruption.'

In the book of Hebrews Paul adds that Jesus resurrected so that He could sit
with His Father as King and Priest of the kingdom of grace.

Hebrews 1:3-5

“when He had by Himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the
Majesty on high, 4 having become so much better than the angels, as He has by
inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. For to which of the
angels did He ever say: ‘You are My Son, today I have begotten You"? [Psalm 2:7]
And again: 5"I will be to Him a Father, And He shall be to Me a Son’?”

Hebrews 5:5

“So also Christ did not glorify Himself to become High Priest, but it was He who
said to Him: "You are My Son, today I have begotten You."

Ellen White explained:

“The Pentecostal outpouring was Heaven's communication that the Redeemer's
inauguration was accomplished. According to His promise, He had sent the Holy
Spirit from heaven to His followers as a token that He had, as priest and king,
received all authority in heaven and on earth, and was the Anointed One over
His people.” Ellen G. White, Acts of the Apostles, p. 39
Upon His installation as King of the kingdom of grace, the Father gave Jesus a
new name (Philippians 2:9-11) and He began a new phase of His ministry.


                                                                         Page 198 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the final crisis, the enemies of Christ’s people will attempt to do with them
what the Jewish Sanhedrin and the Roman Rulers did with Peter and John. By
persecuting the followers of Christ they are really plotting against Christ. For
this reason, Jesus said to Saul ‘why are you persecuting me?’

At the end, the kings of the earth and of the whole world, the beast, and the false
prophet along with all their supporters will collude intending to destroy
Christ’s bride as Pilate, Herod, the Gentiles and the Jews colluded to destroy
Jesus. The powers of earth and hell will collude together against Christ in the
person of His witnesses. However, their plans will fail and they will be dashed
to pieces like a potter’s vessel.

Revelation 2:26, 27

“And he who overcomes, and keeps My works until the end, to him I will give
power over the nations—27 'He [Jesus] shall rule them with a rod of iron; they
shall be dashed to pieces like the potter's vessels'.

One is reminded of the image of Daniel 2 where the stone smashes all the
nations of the world into smithereens and then Jesus establishes His everlasting
kingdom.

Comments on Verse 16

“And He has on His robe and on His thigh a name written: KING OF KINGS AND
LORD OF LORDS.”

This same title appears in Revelation 17:14 which means that Revelation 19:16
and Revelation 17:14 are referring to the same point of time.

Revelation 17:14

“These [the kings of the earth and the whole world] will make war
[Armageddon, the same war as Revelation 16:12 and 19:11-21] with the
Lamb [in the person of His witnesses], and the Lamb will overcome them [as
He rides the white horse], for [because] He is Lord of lords and King of kings;

                                                                         Page 199 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and those who are with Him [see Revelation 14:1 for those who are ‘with
Him’, 144,000] are called, chosen, and faithful."

The questions that the rebellious multitudes asked in Revelation 13:4, "Who is
like the beast? Who is able to make war with him?" will be answered in
Revelation 19:11ff. The Lamb will be more than able.

Comments on Verses 17, 18

“Then I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to
all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven, "Come and gather together for the
supper of the great God that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains,
the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them, and the
flesh of all people, free and slave, both small and great [terminology
reminiscent of Revelation 6:15-17]."

We are not to understand the birds of prey literally. Revelation 19:11-21
expresses profound realities in symbolic language. Jesus does not come to
trample a literal winepress and He does not have a literal sword coming out of
His mouth. The root prophecy for verses 17 and 18 is in Ezekiel 39:17-20 where
the beasts of the earth and the fowl of the air are summoned to feed on the
hordes of Gog and Magog who have come to destroy Israel. What do the birds
and the beasts symbolize?

The book of Revelation itself gives us the answer. The birds represent Satan and
his demons. Revelation 18 describes the fall of Babylon with three synonymous
expressions and the third refers to the demons as unclean and hateful birds:

Revelation 18:2-3

“And he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying, "Babylon the great is fallen, is
fallen, and has become a [1] dwelling place of demons, [2] a prison for every foul
spirit, and [3] a cage for every unclean and hated bird!”




                                                                         Page 200 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Comments on Verse 19

Revelation 19:19

“And I saw the beast, the kings of the earth, and their armies [the question is:
Where is the dragon?], gathered together to make war against Him who sat on
the horse and against His army.”

In this verse we have two armies. On one side is a threefold coalition with their
armies and on the other side is Christ with His armies. The name of the battle
that is to be fought is Armageddon. The battle ends up being a rout. The
threefold coalition falls apart (see Revelation 16:19) and under demonic
influences, ends up fighting with one another:

Zechariah 14:12-13

“And this shall be the plague with which the Lord will strike all the people who
fought against Jerusalem: Their flesh shall dissolve while they stand on their
feet, their eyes shall dissolve in their sockets, and their tongues shall dissolve in
their mouths. 13 It shall come to pass in that day that a great panic from the Lord
will be among them. Everyone will seize the hand of his neighbor, and raise his
hand against his neighbor's hand.” (see also, Haggai 2:20-22; Judges 6 and 7;
Ezekiel 38:21; 2 Chronicles 20:22, 23; 1 Samuel 14:20; Isaiah 9:19).

We must not misunderstand the nature of this war. It will not be that the
threefold coalition is shooting nuclear weapons at Jesus as he descends from
heaven riding on the white horse with His armies. The war is really against
Christ in the person of His people. When the LORD took off Pharaoh’s chariot
wheels in the midst of the Red Sea, the Egyptians said: ‘let us flee for the LORD
fights for Israel’. In fighting the people of God they were fighting the God of the
people. Ellen White explained:

“As we approach the last crisis, it is of vital moment that harmony and unity exist
among the Lord's instrumentalities. The world is filled with storm and war and
variance. Yet under one head—the papal power—the people will unite to oppose

                                                                         Page 201 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
God in the person of His witnesses.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church,
vol. 7, p. 182
Comments on Verse 20

“Then the beast [the sea beast of Revelation 13 a symbol of the papacy] was
captured, and with him the false prophet [the land beast, a symbol of apostate
Protestantism] who worked signs [Revelation 13:13] in his [the beast’s]
presence, by which he [the land beast] deceived those who received the mark of
the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were cast alive into the
lake of fire burning with brimstone.” (this is the fulfillment of the third angel’s
message. Revelation 13:11-18; 14:9-11 contain the same elements).

We have previously noticed that three powers will oppose God in the person of
His witnesses—the dragon, the beast and the false prophet. So the question, is,
why does verse 20 refer only to two of them—the beast and the false prophet?
Actually, verse 19 mentions the third power as the kings of the earth. You see,
before the millennium the kings are the dragon and after the millennium Satan
is.

Comments on Verse 21

“And the rest [those who remained] were killed with the sword that proceeded
from the mouth of Him who sat on the horse. And all the birds were filled with
their flesh.”




                                                                         Page 202 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


        Lesson #11 – Daniel 11:40-45 and the Final Crisis


Introduction

Daniel 11:40-45 has always been a subject of lively discussion among Adventist
theologians. Until recently most agreed that, the king of the north represents
the papacy and the king of the south represents atheism or secularism.
However, now a new view has appeared on the horizon that sees radical Islam
as playing a significant role in the fulfillment of this prophecy. Those who have
embraced this view have concluded that the events of 9/11 and the war against
Al-Qaeda are so significant that they must be contemplated somewhere in Bible
prophecy. This has sparked a new interest in the study of the fifth and sixth
trumpets in conjunction with Daniel 11:40-45.
Usually Ellen White has provided valuable guidance in the interpretation of
difficult prophetic passages. However, unlike other passages in the book of
Daniel, Ellen White seems to be silent on the meaning of most of chapter eleven,
particularly verses 40-45. Nowhere, to my knowledge does she ever quote
these verses or even echo the terminology contained in them.
This seeming silence on verses 40-45 has led some to conclude that Ellen White
had nothing to say about them. We therefore ask, did Ellen White have anything

                                                                         Page 203 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
to say about the meaning of these verses or does her seeming silence indicate
that their meaning would remain a mystery until long after her death? In this
article, we will seek to answer this question.
Ellen White’s Use of Daniel 11
To my knowledge, there are only three primary Ellen G. White references to
Daniel 11 (except for one in A Word to the Little Flock Scattered Abroad).
One of these references is indirect, one is general in nature and the other is
quite specific. Only in the specific reference does Ellen White actually quote
any verses from the chapter (verses 30-36). Unfortunately, as stated before, she
never quotes nor does she even allude to the language of verses 40-45 so it
would seem well-nigh impossible to know if or how Ellen White understood
them.
Ellen White’s Three Quotations
The first quotation is indirect because she does not specifically mention Daniel
11 but only alludes to it (all bold type is mine unless specified). In 1896, she
wrote:
“The light that Daniel received from God was given especially for these last days.
The visions he saw by the banks of the Ulai [Daniel 8:2] and the Hiddekel [Daniel
10:4 and chapter 11], the great rivers of Shinar, are now in process of
fulfillment, and all the events foretold will soon come to pass.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies to Ministers, p. 112
The second quotation is general and she wrote it in 1909:
“The world is stirred with the spirit of war. The prophecy of the eleventh chapter
of Daniel has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Soon the scenes of
trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take place.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies
for the Church, vol. 9, p. 14
She wrote the third quotation in 1904 and it is the only one where Ellen
White actually quotes verses from Daniel 11:


                                                                         Page 204 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“We have no time to lose. Troublous times are before us. The world is stirred with
the spirit of war. Soon the scenes of trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take
place. The prophecy in the eleventh of Daniel has nearly reached its complete
fulfillment. Much of the history that has taken place in fulfillment of this
prophecy will be repeated. In the thirtieth verse a power is spoken of that "shall
be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy covenant: so shall
he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that forsake the holy
covenant." [she quotes verses 30-36] Scenes similar to those described in
these words will take place.” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 13, p. 394
(Letter 103, 1904)

Analysis of Ellen White’s References to Daniel 11
We must now examine more closely the three quotations above:
The quotation from Testimonies to Ministers, p. 112 (1896) provides two key
items of information:
    First, the prophecies of Daniel eight and eleven run concurrently and
     are parallel. The prophecy by the Ulai was the one given in chapter 8
     (Daniel 8:2) and the one by the Hiddekel was the one given in chapters
     10 and 11 (Daniel 10:4).
    Second, both of these prophecies were in the process of fulfillment
     when Ellen White wrote in 1896. Unfortunately, Ellen White does not
     specify how much of the chapter had already reached its fulfillment
     when she wrote the statement. She merely stated that these prophecies
     were in the process of fulfillment.
The quotation in Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 14, adds some very
valuable information: When Ellen White wrote this testimony in 1909 she
stated that the prophecy of Daniel 11 had nearly reached its complete
fulfillment. Thus, we can be certain that in 1909 the process of fulfillment of
Daniel 11 was in the last few verses of the chapter.


                                                                         Page 205 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The quotation from Manuscript Releases, vol. 13, p. 394 (1904) contains some
significant information that we do not find in the other two.
In this statement, Ellen White explains that much of the history that fulfilled
this chapter will repeat. The critical question then is this, to which history was
she referring? Fortunately, it is not necessary for us to guess because she
immediately quotes verses 30-36. Then, right after quoting these verses, she
again repeats the thought that much of the history that fulfilled this prophecy
will occur once more in the future:
“Scenes similar to those described in these words will take place.”
Clearly, Ellen White understood that verses 30-36 (as well as verses 37-39 that
she does not quote) had already reached their fulfillment before she wrote. If
verses 30-39 had already reached their fulfillment in the past, then the future
repetition of much of the history must occur in verses 40-45. Thus, verses 30-
39 describe past events from the time that she wrote while verses 40-45
describe future events.
It is important to realize that Ellen White was not saying that these verses
would have two fulfillments, one past and the other future. What she is saying
is that much of the history that fulfilled these verses in the past will occur in
similar manner in the future. Stated another way, it is not the prophecy in
verses 30-39 that will be fulfilled once again but rather much of the history
that fulfilled the prophecy in the past will be repeated in similar fashion in the
future.
A Repetition of History
Now we must ask why the historical scenes of the past will repeat once again in
similar fashion in the future. The answer is not hard to find. The arrogant and
persecuting power that verses 30-39 describe is the Roman Catholic papacy
as it behaved during its 1260-year career. During this period, it joined church
and state, ran loose and used the sword of the state to persecute dissenters.



                                                                         Page 206 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
As is well known, at the end of the 1260 years the papacy received a deadly
wound when the state turned against it at the conclusion of the French
Revolution. However, this was not the end of the papacy’s career. Prophecy
predicts that after a period of convalescence the deadly wound would be
healed (Revelation 13:3) when the United States returns the sword of civil
power into the papacy’s hand. Then the papacy will behave once more as it did
in the past. Thus, the history of past papal oppression will transpire in the
future because the papacy will rise once again to power.
In summary: Ellen White believed that Daniel 11:30-36 (also verses 37-39
although she does not quote them) found its fulfillment in the past. She also
believed that much of the history that these verses describe would transpire
once more in similar fashion. If verses 30-39 had already found their
fulfillment when Ellen White wrote, then we must find the future repetition of
the history of these verses in verses 40-45.
Notice the following three quotations on the past and future power of the
papacy:
“The influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is
still far from being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power.
"I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was
healed: and all the world wondered after the beast" Verse 3. Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, p. 579
“When our nation [the United States] shall so abjure the principles of its
government as to enact a Sunday law, Protestantism will in this act join hands
with popery; it will be nothing else that giving life [it must have had a deadly
wound] to the tyranny which has long been eagerly watching its opportunity to
spring again [the active despotism died only to live again] into active [for a
period the tyranny was inactive] despotism.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, vol. 5, p. 712
“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they
might worship him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land

                                                                         Page 207 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
over which for long years the shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land
which God has favored by making it the depository of the pure religion of Christ—
when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure the principles of
Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with God's
law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants
will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a
national act enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor [the
corrupt faith of Rome must have been dead for a period] to the corrupt faith
of Rome, reviving [her tyranny and oppression of conscience were dead for
a while] her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to
work in mighty power for the vindication of his truth.” Ellen G. White, The Signs
of the Times, June 12, 1893
In the light of the foregoing analysis, we can safely conclude that the repetition
of the scenes of the past career of the papacy that verses 30-39 describe will
repeat once again in similar fashion in verses 40-45.

Ellen White’s Perspective of Daniel 12:1, 2
However, does Ellen White have anything to say about the events that verses
40-45 describe? Where would we even begin to look if she never quotes these
verses or even alludes to their terminology? I believe that we find the key that
will unlock her understanding of these verses in her understanding of Daniel
12:1. Although Ellen White never quoted or even alluded to the language of
Daniel 11:40-45 in the book The Great Controversy, she did quote the next
verse, Daniel 12:1. I believe that the place where she quotes Daniel 12:1
contains the key that unlocks her understanding of the immediately preceding
verses.
Working Deductively
Because Ellen White did not quote or even allude to the terminology of verses
40-45 in The Great Controversy, we cannot work from verse 40 forwards. We



                                                                         Page 208 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
do not know where to find her comments on verse 40. What we must do then
is work deductively from Daniel 12:1, 2 backwards.
Let us consider Daniel 12 verses one and two:
"At that time [1] Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over
the sons of your people; and there shall be a [2] time of trouble, such as never
was since there was a nation, even to that time. And at that time your people [3]
shall be delivered, everyone who is found written in the book. And many of those
who sleep in the dust of the earth [4] shall awake, some to everlasting life, some
to shame and everlasting contempt.”
The bold type indicates that there are four sequential events in Daniel 12:1,
2:
      The standing up of Michael
      The time of trouble
      The deliverance of God’s people
      The special resurrection

Now let us consider how Ellen G. White developed these four events in The
Great Controversy but in reverse order beginning with the fourth item on the
list, the special resurrection and working backwards:
    GC, p. 637: Ellen White quotes Daniel 12:2 to describe the fourth item
     on the list, the special resurrection.
       “Graves are opened, and "many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth...
       awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting
       contempt." Daniel 12:2.”
    GC, p. 635: Ellen White describes the third item on the list. The chapter’s
     title is ‘God’s People Delivered’. At the beginning of the chapter she
     states:
       “The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats
       in the forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in


                                                                         Page 209 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      every quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels are
      preparing for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity
      that the God of Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen.”
      You will notice also that Ellen White concluded the previous chapter (‘The
      Time of Trouble’) with a clear allusion to Daniel 12:1 where the text tells
      us that those whose names are in the book will be delivered:
      “Glorious will be the deliverance of those who have patiently waited for
      His coming and whose names are written in the book of life.” Ellen G.
      White, The Great Controversy, p. 634
   GC, p. 616: Ellen White describes the second item on the list by
    explaining the time of trouble through which God’s people will go:
      “The people of God will then be plunged into those scenes of affliction and
      distress described by the prophet as the time of Jacob's trouble.”
   GC, p. 613: Ellen White begins the chapter on ‘The Time of Trouble’ by
    quoting Daniel 12:1 and then amplifies the meaning of the standing up of
    Michael, the first item on the list.
      “Then Jesus ceases His intercession in the sanctuary above. . . When He
      leaves the sanctuary, darkness covers the inhabitants of the earth. In that
      fearful time the righteous must live in the sight of a holy God without an
      intercessor.”

Summary of Ellen White’s Comments on Daniel 12:1, 2
Let us look now at Ellen White’s development of Daniel 12:1, 2 in its regular
order:
   GC, p. 613: The standing up of Michael
   GC, p. 616: The time of trouble
   GC, p. 635: God’s people delivered
   GC, p. 637: The special resurrection


                                                                         Page 210 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The perceptive reader will notice that Ellen White, in The Great Controversy,
develops the events of Daniel 12:1, 2 in the precise order in which they appear
in Daniel 12:1, 2.
Importance of the Expression ‘at that time’
We cannot understand Daniel 12:1, 2 independently of its immediately
preceding context. It is important to remember that Daniel 12:1, 2 is a
continuation of the flow of events that transpired in the previous verses. We
know this because Daniel 12:1 begins with a time reference, “at that time”. This
expression links Daniel 12:1 with what occurred previously in verses 40-45
particularly verses 44 and 45.

The crucial question at this point is this, where would we expect to find Ellen
White’s comments about the events that occur immediately before Daniel 12:1?
The answer is unmistakable. We must find them in the pages that immediately
precede the chapter on the standing up of Michael and the time of trouble.

The Literary Structure of Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1
Now let us carefully consider the literary structure of verses 44b-45 to
determine how they relate to Daniel 12:1. The purpose is to ascertain the event
to which the expression “at that time” points.

A comparison of verses 44 and 45 with Daniel 12:1 reveals that they describe
the same events in the same order but with a different terminology and
emphasis:
Daniel 11:44b-45:
   A. The king of the north goes out to destroy and annihilate many (11:44b).
   B. The king of the north sets up the tents of his palace in a strategic place
      between the seas and the glorious holy mountain to give a final
      deathblow to the remnant (11:45a).
   C. The king of the north comes to his end with none to help him (11:45b).


                                                                         Page 211 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Daniel 12:1
   A. Michael stands up to defend His people (parallel to 11:44b).
   B. A time of trouble such as never was ensues (parallel to 11:45a).
   C. God delivers His people (parallel to 11:45b).
Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1 are precisely parallel but they portray a different
emphasis. Whereas Daniel 11:44b-45 highlights the activities of the king of the
north and its destiny for oppressing God’s people, Daniel 12:1 focuses on the
jeopardy of God’s people at the hand of the king of the north and their
deliverance by God.
It works out this way:
When the king of the north goes “out with great fury to destroy and annihilate
many” (11:44b), Michael will stand up to protect and defend them (12:1a).
When the king of the north places the tents of his palace in a strategic location
to deliver the final deathblow against God’s people (11:45a; vividly described
in GC 635), they will go through a terrible time of trouble such as never was
(12:1b).
However, the king of the north will “come to his end with none to help him”
(11:45b) when God intervenes to deliver His people who are written in the
book (12:1c).
The expression “at that time” thus links Daniel 11:44b-45 with Daniel 12:1. God
answers the actions of the king of the north against the remnant by
counteractions in defense of His faithful remnant.
What about Daniel 11:44A?
What about Daniel 11:44a? The first half of verse 44 tells us that ‘tidings from
the north and from the east will trouble the king of the north’. The ‘tidings from
the north and from the east’ explain the reason why the king of the north will
go out and attempt to destroy and annihilate many:



                                                                         Page 212 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“But news from the east and the north shall trouble [alarm or disturb] him [the
king of the north]; therefore, he [the king of the north] shall go out with great
fury to destroy and annihilate many.”
What is this news from the east and the north that so infuriates the king of the
north that he seeks to destroy ‘many’? We must go to the book of Revelation for
the answer because Ellen White wrote that the little book of Daniel is unsealed
by the book of Revelation:
“The books of Daniel and the Revelation are one. One is a prophecy, the other a
revelation; one a book sealed, the other a book opened.” Ellen G. White, Christ
Triumphant, p. 344
Revelation 7:2 describes an angel who ascends from the east having the seal
of the living God. This angel comes to seal the faithful of God upon their
foreheads. In contrast, the land beast will impose the mark of the beast on pain
of death to those who refuse it (Revelation 13:15, 16). Thus, the beast from the
earth gives a death decree against God’s people at the behest of the beast from
the sea—the papacy.
Revelation 18:1-5 portrays a powerful angel who descends from heaven (the
north according to Isaiah 14:13 and Psalm 48:1, 2) and gives a clarion call for
God’s people to reject the mark of the beast and to get out of Babylon before
she suffers the seven last plagues and comes to her end.
Thus, the book of Revelation identifies the tidings from the north and from the
east as the message of the sealing and the call to come out of Babylon.
Ellen White concurs with this Biblical view. The title of the chapter that
immediately precedes the standing up of Michael and the time of trouble bears
the title, “The Final Warning.” Ellen White begins this chapter in GC, p. 603 by
quoting Revelation 18:1, 2, 4 and 5. In perfect accordance with Daniel 11:44a
and Revelation 7:2 she then described on page 605 the issue that will divide
the world:



                                                                         Page 213 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“While the observance of the false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state,
contrary to the fourth commandment, will be an avowal of allegiance to a power
that is in opposition to God, the keeping of the true Sabbath, in obedience to God's
law, is an evidence of loyalty to the Creator. While one class, by accepting the sign
of submission to earthly powers, receive the mark of the beast, the other
choosing the token of allegiance to divine authority, receive the seal of God.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 605
In the same chapter, Ellen White went on to describe the anger that this
message will cause in the religious world:
“The power attending the message will only madden those who oppose it.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 607
Furthermore, in the next chapter Ellen White flashes back to events that
occurred before the time of trouble:
“The power attending the last warning has enraged the wicked; their anger is
kindled against all who have received the message, and Satan will excite to still
greater intensity the spirit of hatred and persecution.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 614, 615
Thus, the news from the north is identified in Revelation 18 as the Loud Cry of
the angel who descends from heaven (the north) and the news from the east is
the message concerning the seal of God in Revelation 7. Daniel 11:44a describes
this message from the north and the east that enrages the king of the north to
the point of wanting to destroy God’s remnant as described in Daniel 11:44b.
The Beginning Point of Daniel 11:40-45
We have focused in this article primarily on the events from Daniel 11:44 to
Daniel 12:2. But if we continued moving backwards in The Great Controversy
(before page 603) we would find, in reverse order, that Ellen White expounds
upon each phrase of Daniel 11:40-45 ending with the chapter on “The Bible and
the French Revolution” where the deadly wound of Daniel 11:40a is described



                                                                         Page 214 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
(GC, pp. 265-288). Though she does not employ the terminology of verses 40-
45, the sequence of events clearly reveals that she is discussing these verses.
Daniel 11:40a tells us that the king of the south would push at the king of the
north at the time of the end. Ellen White clearly identifies the beginning of the
time of the end as the year 1798 when France dealt the papacy its deadly wound
(GC, p. 356). The word ‘push’ does not adequately portray the idea of the text.
The historical event that this word describes was not a friendly nudge or shove.
The NIV translates: “will engage him in battle’ while the ESV translates “shall
attack him’. That is, in the year 1798 some power described as the king of the
south would attack the king of the north.
There is a wide consensus among students of prophecy in the Seventh-day
Adventist Church that the king of the north represents the papacy.
Furthermore, until recent times there was a broad consensus that the king of
the south represents secularism as exhibited in the French Revolution.
However, times have changed and some Adventist preachers, as they look at
current events, are reinterpreting the king of the south as a symbol of militant
Islam.
Literally and geographically speaking the king of the south was Egypt because
Egypt was the kingdom south of Israel (see Daniel 11:5, 8). However, in
eschatology we are not dealing with literal geographical locations but rather
with global systems.
Who is the king of the south, symbolically speaking? I believe that Revelation
11 (further described in the fifth and sixth trumpets) clearly identifies France
as ‘spiritual Egypt’ (verse 8). While Babylon represents a global apostate
religious system, Egypt symbolizes the secular powers of the world that threw
off the yoke of papal Rome beginning with France. Revelation 17 explains that
for a very short while at the end of time, the secular powers of the world will
once again join together in unholy wedlock with the harlot but in the end the
kings of the earth will hate the Babylonian harlot and destroy her (Revelation
17:15, 16).


                                                                         Page 215 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In Biblical times, Babylon was the literal king of the north because it was a
literal enemy to the literal north of literal Israel. However, today the king of the
north is a global spiritual system of counterfeit religion—the Roman Catholic
papacy (see Revelation 17:1-6). The papacy is certainly not literally north of
literal Israel (it is actually west). We must therefore interpret the king of the
north and the king of the south symbolically.
Furthermore, what was the main characteristic of France in 1798? The spirit
of the French Revolution was atheism but actually Daniel 11:40a involves far
more than atheism. The genius of the Revolution culminating with the
captivity of Pope Pius VI was to secularize the government and separate it from
its adulterous relationship with the church. In the course of several decades
after the French Revolution, country after country in Europe established
secular governments separate from the dominance of the papacy.
In 1862, Cardinal Henry Edward Manning complained about how the secular
governments of Europe had forsaken the papacy:
“’See this Catholic Church, this Church of God, feeble and weak, rejected even by
the very nations called Catholic. There is Catholic France, and Catholic
Germany, and Catholic Italy giving up this exploded figment of the temporal
power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ.’ And so, because the Church seems weak, and
the Vicar of the Son of God is renewing the Passion of his Master upon earth,
therefore we are scandalized, therefore we turn our faces from him.” (The
Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 140, 141)
Ellen White has stated why the papacy has not been able to ascend to power
once more:
“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome
be reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her
tyranny and persecution.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 564




                                                                         Page 216 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Beginning and Ending Point
We have the following beginning and ending points for Daniel 11:40-45 in The
Great Controversy:
Daniel 11:40a; GC, pp. 265-288:
France ‘attacks’ the papacy and inflicts the deadly wound severing the illicit
love relationship between church and state. Thus, the secular powers put a
restraint on the papacy.
Daniel 11:40b-11:43; GC, pp. 289-605:
Events that transpire between the infliction of the deadly wound in 1798 and
the Loud Cry.
Daniel 11:44a; GC, p. 605:
The Loud Cry and Sealing Message trouble the papacy.
Daniel 11:44b; 12:1a; GC, p. 607 (flashback to the past in GC pp. 614, 615):
The Loud Cry and Sealing Message enrage the wicked against God’s remnant.
Michael stands up, closing the door of probation and defending His people from
the rage of the wicked.
Daniel 11:45a; 12:1b; GC, p. 613ff:
A universal death decree against God’s people is signed as the king of the north
sets up his tents outside spiritual Jerusalem (the remnant church) to deliver the
final deathblow against God’s people. This causes a time of trouble for God’s
people such as never has been.
Daniel 11:45b; 12c; GC, p. 635ff:
The king of the north comes to his end with none to help him because his
supporters forsake him. As a result, God delivers His people.
Daniel 12:2; GC, p. 637:




                                                                         Page 217 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message rise in a special
resurrection along with those who pierced Jesus.
Thus the two reference points for the beginning and ending of Daniel 11:40-45
are the French Revolution at the beginning as described in GC, pp. 265-288 and
the deliverance of God’s people and the special resurrection in GC, pp. 635, 637.
In between these two reference points, we have the events that Ellen White
describes in GC, pp. 289-604. A careful study of these pages reveals that Ellen
White comments on all the details in verses 40b-43 without actually quoting
the verses or using the verbiage.
Ellen G. White and Islam
It is uncanny how Ellen White vividly describes the events of Daniel 11:40-45
without ever quoting the verses or alluding to the language. The question is,
why did she not simply come out and quote the verses and then comment on
them? There is a clear historical reason.
The original view of the pioneers was that the king of the north represents the
Roman Catholic papacy. This is the clear view expressed in the pamphlet A
Word to the Little Flock Scattered Abroad, coauthored by James and Ellen
White in 1847. However, in the early 1870’s Uriah Smith (who was the highly
respected editor of the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald) changed the view
of the pioneers by reinterpreting the king of the north as Turkey. You see, in
Smith’s day Turkey was prominent in the news so he changed the traditional
view to fit current events.
James White was unhappy about Smith’s new view and accused him of
removing one of the landmarks of the Advent Movement. Things started getting
nasty and members began taking sides. In this context, Ellen White instructed
her husband to desist of his criticism. She knew that an understanding of Daniel
11:40-45 was not a matter of life and death at that time. Her main concern, at
that moment, was to preserve the unity of the church. If Ellen White had quoted
the verses of Daniel 11:40-45 and offered a view contradictory to Uriah Smith’s,
she would have been accused of nepotism so she commented on these verses

                                                                         Page 218 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
without quoting them or alluding to the language knowing full well that
someday someone would discover her view of the matter.
Significantly, in the eschatological portion of The Great Controversy, Ellen
White does not mention Islam, even once, as playing any role in the fulfillment
of Bible prophecy in the end time. It appears that Ellen White saw no prophetic
significance to the rise of radical Islam. The same is true of the great chain
prophecies of Scripture. There is no reference to Islam in the prophecies of
Daniel 2, Daniel 7, Daniel 8 and 9, Revelation 12, Revelation 13, Matthew 24 and
Revelation 17 neither is there any reference to Islam in the series of the
churches and the seals.
Ellen White’s silence on the role of Islam in Bible prophecy has puzzled some
Seventh-day Adventist scholars who have concluded that Ellen White simply
did not have all the light on end time events. At least one of these scholars has
even reached the conclusion that Ellen White was wrong in her interpretation
of the little horn as a symbol of the papacy and has reinterpreted it as Islam.
Do not get me wrong. I am not saying that Islam might not play a role in the
precipitation of end time events as Ellen White describes them in The Great
Controversy. It is true that Islam might serve as the catalyst for the fulfillment
of Bible prophecies concerning the United States and the papacy, but I do not
believe that prophecy contemplates the rising power of militant Islam directly
by prophecy.
That is to say, in the light of the Biblical evidence I do not believe that radical
Islam fulfills any specific end time prophecy but very well could serve as the
catalyst for the fulfillment of prophecy. Radical Islam has brought the United
States to prominence and has led it to flex its military muscles. It has made the
curtailing of our civil and religious liberties easier and it has also misdirected
the eyes of Christians (and even a few Seventh-day Adventists) to the Middle
East for the fulfillment of prophecy thus hiding from view the powers that will
play a role in end time events, the papacy and apostate Protestantism.
Time has proven that Uriah Smith’s reinterpretation of the king of the north

                                                                         Page 219 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
was wrong. Will we learn from his mistake? Will we ever learn that the best way
to understand prophecy is not to read the newspapers or to watch CNN but
rather to study our Bibles?




                                                                         Page 220 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


               Lesson #12 – The Special Resurrection


Just before the second coming of Jesus, God’s people will experience the worst
time of trouble since the world began. Ellen White explained that some of God’s
faithful people will be laid to rest before that fiery ordeal while others will
go through it alive:

“Many will be laid away to sleep in Jesus before the fiery ordeal of the time of
trouble shall come upon our world. This is another reason why we should say
after our earnest petition, "Nevertheless, not my will, but Thine, O Lord, be done."
Such a petition will never be registered in heaven as a faithless prayer. The Apostle
was bidden to write: [she quotes Revelation 14:13] "Blessed are the dead which
die in the Lord from henceforth; Yea saith the Spirit, that they may rest from
their labors; and their works do follow them." If Jesus, the world's Redeemer,
prayed, "O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me," and then added,
"Nevertheless not as I will, but as Thou wilt," how very appropriate is it for poor,
finite mortals to make surrender to the wisdom and will of God.”




                                                                         Page 221 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 14:13

In the previous quote, Ellen White cites Revelation 14:13 as the biblical
evidence that some will go to their rest before the time of trouble. It is
noteworthy that the blessing that God pronounces upon those who sleep
comes immediately after the third angel’s message. Therefore, somehow,
there is a special blessing for those who die after the third angel’s message
begins to be proclaimed. So the question we must ask is this: When did the third
angel’s message begin to be proclaimed? Ellen White gave the answer:

“Since 1844, in fulfillment of the prophecy of the third angel's message, the
attention of the world has been called to the true Sabbath [the opposite of the
beast, his image and his mark], and a constantly increasing number are
returning to the observance of God's holy day.” Ellen G. White, The Story of
Redemption, p. 383

Therefore, God pronounces a special blessing upon those who die in the faith
of the third angel’s message from 1844 on. Let us take a closer look at
Revelation 14:13 with my personal comments in brackets.

Revelation 14:13

“Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, "Write: 'Blessed are the dead
[not all the dead] who die in the Lord from now on [from this point
forward].'" "Yes," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, [Paul
uses the word almost exclusively to refer to taxing evangelistic labor] and
their works [their influence] follow them."

The lexicons define the word ‘labor’ as ‘exacting, shattering work, hardship’.

1 Thessalonians 2:9 provides an example:

“For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil; for laboring night and day,
that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of
God.”

                                                                         Page 222 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Letter to Leonard Hastings

Why are those who die after 1844 especially blessed? What is the blessing that
no other group will receive? In order to understand the blessing, it is helpful to
consider the case of a specific person who died in the faith of the third angel
after 1844.

In 1850 Ellen White got news that her dear friend, Mrs. Hastings had passed
away. Mrs. Hastings, who lived in Ipswich, New Hampshire, was a very dear
friend of Ellen White:

“Our hearts were knit together; especially was the heart of Sister Hastings knit
with mine as were those of David and Jonathan. Our union was not marred
while she lived.” Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teaching, pp. 123, 124

In response to the sad news of her friend’s death, Ellen White wrote a letter of
encouragement to Leonard Hastings, her grieving husband. The letter
contains several important theological points.

Dear Brother:

“I hardly know what to say to you. The news of your wife's death was to me
overwhelming. I could hardly believe it and can hardly believe it now. God
gave me a view [a vision] last Sabbath night which I will write.... I saw that she
was sealed and would come up at the voice of God [at the moment of the fifth
plague] and stand upon the earth, and would be with the 144,000. I saw we need
not mourn for her; she would rest in the time of trouble, and all that we could
mourn for was our loss in being deprived of her company. I saw her death would
result in good.” Ellen G. White, Selected Message, vol. 2, p. 263 (Letter 10, 1850).

In this letter Ellen White brought to view several important points as regards
the special resurrection:

    Mrs. Hastings was sealed (she was secure in the Lord when she died).
    She would rest during the time of trouble.

                                                                         Page 223 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    She will forth from the grave at the voice of God (the voice that delivers
     the living saints at the fifth plague).
    When she comes forth she will stand with (not ‘among’) the 144,000.
    Her death would result in good (because her works follow her).

The General Resurrection

Those who die in the faith of the third angel’s message will not resurrect in the
general resurrection of the righteous described in 1 Thessalonians 4:

1 Thessalonians 4:15-18

“For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain
until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. 16 For
the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an
archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. 17
Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord.”

The Special Resurrection

At the end of the time of trouble and before the second coming, two groups
will stand together upon the earth:

    Those who will live through the time of trouble and be delivered from the
     death decree by the voice of God at the moment of the fifth plague.
    Those who will resurrect in a special resurrection at the same moment
     when God delivers the living from the death decree.
Daniel 12:1, 2 gives us the chronology:
"At that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over the
sons of your people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since
there was a nation, even to that time. And at that time your people shall be
delivered [the righteous living], everyone who is found written in the book. 2


                                                                         Page 224 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
And many [not all] of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some
to everlasting life [those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message],
some to shame and everlasting contempt [those who pierced Jesus].”

We can reach the following conclusions from Daniel 12:1, 2:

    At the end of the time of trouble, one group will be alive and God will
     deliver it from the death decree.
    The other group will sleep during the time of trouble and resurrect when
     it ends.
    The resurrection in Daniel 12:2 cannot refer to the general resurrection
     because ‘many’ will be raised, not all.
    The resurrection to everlasting contempt cannot refer to the general
     resurrection of the wicked because that will occur after the millennium.

Ellen White Puts it all Together

The voice of God will deliver the living saints from the death decree at the same
moment He calls forth from the grave those who died in the third angel’s
message. This will take place at the end of the time of trouble just before the
second coming begins. Ellen White wrote provided the precise chronology in
the chapter, ‘God’s People Delivered’:

The Death Decree:

“When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor
the law of God, there will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for their
destruction. As the time appointed in the decree draws near, the people will
conspire to root out the hated sect. It will be determined to strike in one night a
decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the voice of dissent and reproof.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 635




                                                                         Page 225 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Fifth Plague of Darkness:

“With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness
of the night, falls upon the earth.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 635,
636

The Raging Waters Arrested in the Sixth Plague:

“The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their mocking cries die away. The
objects of their murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings they gaze
upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its overpowering
brightness.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 635

The Voice of God Delivers the Living Saints at the Seventh Plague:

“It is at midnight that God manifests His power for the deliverance of His
people.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 635

“In the midst of the angry heavens is one clear space of indescribable glory,
whence comes the voice of God like the sound of many waters, saying: ‘It is done.’
Revelation 16:17. That voice shakes the heavens and the earth. There is a mighty
earthquake, ‘such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an
earthquake, and so great." Verses 17, 18.’ Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy,
pp. 636, 637

The Special Resurrection

“Graves are opened, and ‘many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth. . .
awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.’
[Daniel 12:2]. All who have died in the faith of the third angel's message come
forth from the tomb glorified, to hear God's covenant of peace with those who
have kept His law.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 637




                                                                         Page 226 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Day and Hour of Christ’s Coming Announced

“The voice of God is heard from heaven, declaring the day and hour of Jesus'
coming, and delivering the everlasting covenant to His people. Like peals of
loudest thunder His words roll through the earth. The Israel of God stand
listening, with their eyes fixed upward. Their countenances are lighted up with
His glory, and shine as did the face of Moses when he came down from Sinai. The
wicked cannot look upon them. And when the blessing [of Revelation 14:13] is
pronounced on those who have honored God by keeping His Sabbath holy, there
is a mighty shout of victory.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 640
The Sign of the Son of Man Appears

“Soon there appears in the east a small black cloud, about half the size of a man's
hand. It is the cloud which surrounds the Savior and which seems in the distance
to be shrouded in darkness. The people of God know this to be the sign of the Son
of man. In solemn silence they gaze upon it as it draws nearer the earth,
becoming lighter and more glorious, until it is a great white cloud, its base a
glory like consuming fire, and above it the rainbow of the covenant. Jesus rides
forth as a mighty conqueror.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 640, 641
Jesus Descends from Heaven

“The King of kings descends upon the cloud, wrapped in flaming fire. The
heavens are rolled together as a scroll, the earth trembles before Him, and every
mountain and island is moved out of its place.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 641, 642

The General Resurrection

“Amid the reeling of the earth, the flash of lightning, and the roar of thunder, the
voice of the Son of God calls forth the sleeping saints. He looks upon the graves
of the righteous, then, raising His hands to heaven, He cries: "Awake, awake,
awake, ye that sleep in the dust, and arise!" Throughout the length and breadth
of the earth the dead shall hear that voice, and they that hear shall live. And the
whole earth shall ring with the tread of the exceeding great army of every nation,

                                                                         Page 227 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
kindred, tongue, and people. They come from the prison house of death, clothed
with immortal glory, crying: "O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy
victory?" 1 Corinthians 15:55. And the living righteous and the risen saints unite
their voices in a long, glad shout of victory.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy,
p. 644

Living and All the Resurrected Dead Caught Up

“The living righteous are changed "in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye." At
the voice of God they were glorified; now they are made immortal and with the
risen saints are caught up to meet their Lord in the air [1 Thessalonians
4:17]. Angels ‘gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of
heaven to the other.’ Little children are borne by holy angels to their mothers'
arms. Friends long separated by death are united, nevermore to part, and with
songs of gladness ascend together to the City of God.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 645

The Chronology and Biblical Foundation

“Then we heard the voice of God which shook the heavens and earth [Matthew
24:29], and gave the 144,000 the day and hour of Jesus' coming. Then the saints
were free, united and full of the glory of God, for he had turned their captivity.
And I saw a flaming cloud come where Jesus stood and he laid off his priestly
garment and put on his kingly robe, took his place on the cloud which carried
him to the east where it first appeared to the saints on earth, a small black
cloud, which was the sign [Matthew 24:30] of the Son of Man. While the cloud
was passing from the Holiest to the east which took a number of days, the
Synagogue of Satan worshiped at the saints’ feet.” Ellen G. Harmon, Day Star,
March 14, 1846

Another Special Resurrection: Abel and John the Baptist

“As the followers of Jesus should languish in lonely cells, or perish by the sword,
the rack, or the fagot, apparently forsaken by God and man, what a stay to their

                                                                         Page 228 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
hearts would be the thought that John the Baptist, to whose faithfulness Christ
Himself had borne witness, had passed through a similar experience!” Ellen G.
White, The Desire of Ages, p. 224
God never leads His children otherwise than they would choose to be led, if they
could see the end from the beginning, and discern the glory of the purpose
which they are fulfilling as co-workers with Him. Not Enoch, who was translated
to heaven, not Elijah, who ascended in a chariot of fire, was greater or more
honored than John the Baptist, who perished alone in the dungeon. "Unto you it
is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on Him, but also to suffer for His
sake." Philippians 1:29. And of all the gifts that Heaven can bestow upon men,
fellowship with Christ in His sufferings is the weightiest trust and the highest
honor.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 224, 225
Matthew 27:51-53

“Then, behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom; and the
earth quaked, and the rocks were split, 52 and the graves were opened; and many
bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised; 53 and coming out of the
graves after His resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to
many.”

The commentaries are fuzzy about who they were, when they lived, and if
they died again. However, Ellen White answers all of these questions.

“As Christ arose, He brought from the grave a multitude of captives. The
earthquake at His death had rent open their graves, and when He arose, they
came forth with Him. They were those who had been co-laborers with God, and
who at the cost of their lives had borne testimony to the truth. Now they were to
be witnesses for Him who had raised them from the dead.” Ellen G. White, The
Desire of Ages, p. 786
“Those favored, risen saints came forth glorified. They were chosen and holy ones
of every age, from creation down even to the days of Christ. Thus while the
Jewish leaders were seeking to conceal the fact of Christ's resurrection, God chose


                                                                         Page 229 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
to bring up a company from their graves to testify that Jesus had risen, and to
declare His glory.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p.184
Summary:

    They were captives in the grave.
    They came out of their graves when Jesus resurrected.
    They were a multitude.
    They received their glorified bodies.
    They were people that lived from creation to the days of Christ.
    They died as martyrs for bearing witness to the truth.
    They went into the city and testified that Jesus had resurrected and they
     were proof.
    They ascended to heaven with Jesus forty days after the resurrection.
Most likely among them were Abel and John the Baptist because they were
martyrs from creation to the days of Christ. If so, John the Baptist did not
remain in the tomb very long.




                                                                         Page 230 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


     Lesson #13 – The Typology of Sennacherib’s Invasion


In the year 722 BC, King Shalmaneser came from the north country, besieged
Samaria, and took it. Then, in the year 701 BC King Sennacherib came against
Judah. Sennacherib swept from north to south and conquered everything in his
path and he was certain that Jerusalem and Judah would fall into his hands as
well. Isaiah 8:7, 8 compares his invasion of the Holy Land to the overflowing
waters of the River Euphrates at flood stage:

“Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the River,
strong and mighty —the king of Assyria and all his glory; he will go up over all his
channels and go over all his banks. 8 He will pass through Judah, he will overflow
and pass over, he will reach up to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings
will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.”

The full story of Sennacherib’s invasion of the Holy Land is in Isaiah 36-37 and
2 Kings 18-20.

The key word in the Isaiah narrative is ‘deliver’ (36:14, 15 (2x), 36:18 (2x), 19,
20 (2x); 37:11, 12). Sennacherib sought to intimidate those who took refuge in
Jerusalem by reviewing his recent successes. He reminded those who fled to the

                                                                         Page 231 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
city that he had already taken the fortified cities of Judah in the Holy Land
(Isaiah 36:1) and boasted that Jerusalem would suffer the same fate.

Therefore, Sennacherib sent a great army with Rabshakeh, his field
commander, to Jerusalem with horses and chariots (Isaiah 36:2; 37:24) and
three representatives from the city went out to meet him, Eliakim the son of
Hilkiah, Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph (Isaiah 36:3).

Rabshakeh delivered a message from Sennacherib referring to him as the great
king, the king of Assyria (Isaiah 36:4). Only God has the right to claim the title
‘Great King’ who dwells in Jerusalem in the sides of the north (Psalm 48:1, 2).
The Assyrian king was attempting to usurp the position of the legitimate King
of the North.

Rabshakeh delivered a message to King Hezekiah mocking him for saying that
he had an army with which to make war against the great king of Assyria. He
then made fun of Hezekiah for trusting that his ally, Egypt, would lend support
to defeat the great king (Isaiah 36:5, 6).

Rabshakeh then attempted to bribe Judah to submit voluntarily to the king by
making a peace treaty. In fact, he claimed that Jerusalem would not escape
because God Himself had instructed him to march against the city to destroy it.
(Isaiah 36:7-10). Sennacherib was saying to Hezekiah, “if the LORD instructed
me to destroy the city, how then can you depend upon Him to deliver you?”
(Isaiah 36:9, 10). Rabshakeh in a threatening tone bellowed out:

“Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria! 14 Thus says the king: 'Do
not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you; 15 nor let
Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, "The Lord will surely deliver us; this
city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria."' (Isaiah 36:13-15)

Again, Rabshakeh called upon Judah to make peace with him so that all would
go well with them. He promised that if they submitted to the great king, they



                                                                         Page 232 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
would eat bread and drink wine instead of eating their own waste and drinking
their own urine (Isaiah 36:16, 7).

Then Rabshakeh reminded them that the great king had conquered all the
nations before he came to Jerusalem (Isaiah 36:18-20; 37:11-13, 18) and that
their gods had not been able to deliver them (Isaiah 36:19, 20). Three times he
used the expression ‘from my hand’, an expression that we find in Daniel 11
(see Daniel 11:41, 42):

“Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim?
Indeed, have they delivered Samaria from my hand? 20 Who among all the gods
of these lands have delivered their countries from my hand, that the Lord should
deliver Jerusalem from my hand?'"

The king had conquered everything in his path and Jerusalem was the last stand
against his power. If Sennacherib could conquer the city, his triumph would be
complete.

Once again, Rabshakeh mocked the possible help of Egypt (Isaiah 36:5, 6) and
even went so far as to ask the question, ‘will you trust in the LORD? (Isaiah
36:7). In other words, the blasphemous challenge was not only against Judah
but also against the LORD! He challenged those who had found refuge in the city
telling them that Hezekiah would not be able to deliver them (Isaiah 36:14).

Going a step further, he blasphemously claimed that the LORD would not be
able to deliver them either (Isaiah 36:15, 18). He pointed out that the gods of
the nations (and he mentioned several of them by name, including Samaria) had
not been able to deliver them from the great king’s power (Isaiah 36:19, 20)
and the God of Judah would not be able to deliver them either.

King Hezekiah told the people that they should not answer the king’s threats
with a single word and it was so (Isaiah 36:21). Then the three representatives
from Jerusalem rent their clothes and relayed the message of the field
commander to King Hezekiah (Isaiah 36:22).


                                                                         Page 233 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In response, Hezekiah tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth and went
into the house of the LORD (Isaiah 37:1). As the story develops, we will see that
Hezekiah’s affliction was not due to fear of the king but rather holy indignation
because the king blasphemed the name of the LORD. Hezekiah did not make it
a priority to organize and rally his troops.

Hezekiah sent Eliakim, Shebna, and the elders of the priests, covered with
sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz for divine direction from the
LORD (Isaiah 37:2; a similar case is 2 Chronicles 20:20 when a threefold
coalition came against God’s people in the days of King Jehoshaphat). The
representatives told Isaiah that this was a day of trouble, of rebuke and of
blasphemy because Sennacherib had reproached the living God (Isaiah 37:3;
see also Jeremiah 30:4-9; Genesis 32:6ff; Daniel 12:1; Matthew 24:21-24). Their
hope was that the LORD had heard the blasphemous words and would
intervene to deliver his remnant:

“It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his
master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will rebuke
the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayer for
the remnant that is left.'" (Isaiah 37:4, 5)

Isaiah the prophet then delivered a message from the Lord to King Hezekiah:

“And Isaiah said to them, ‘Thus you shall say to your master, thus says the Lord:
‘Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of
the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me. 7 Surely I will send a spirit upon him,
and he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall
by the sword in his own land.’” (Isaiah 37:6)

Rabshakeh then returned and gave a report to the king of Assyria (Isaiah 37:8,
9) to which the king responded by defying the God of heaven:

"Thus you shall speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying: 'Do not let your God in
whom you trust deceive you, saying, "Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand


                                                                         Page 234 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
of the king of Assyria." 11 Look! You have heard what the kings of Assyria have
done to all lands by utterly destroying them; and shall you be delivered? 12 Have
the gods of the nations delivered those whom my fathers have destroyed, Gozan
and Haran and Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar? 13 Where is
the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim,
Hena, and Ivah?'" (Isaiah 37:10-13)

When Hezekiah received the defiant message from Sennacherib, he went into
the temple, laid the king’s letter before the LORD, and prayed a beautiful prayer
(Isaiah 37:14-20). In his prayer he addressed God as the One who dwells
between the cherubim (see Psalm 80:1 and its context), the God of all kingdoms
who created heaven and earth. Hezekiah then pleaded for God to open His eyes
and ears to see and hear all the words that Sennacherib spoke to ‘reproach the
living God’. He ‘reminded’ the LORD that the kings of Assyria had laid waste all
nations and their lands and cast their gods into the fire ‘because they were not
gods but the work of men’s hands’ and that, for this reason, they destroyed
them.

At the climax of his prayer, Hezekiah pleaded, ‘Lord God, save us from his hand
(a synonym of ‘deliver us’). The expression ‘save us from his hand’ appears in
Daniel 11:41 where Edom, Moab and Ammon escape or are delivered from the
hand of the king of the north. However, Hezekiah was not so much concerned
with deliverance to escape destruction as ‘that all the kingdoms of the earth
may know that you are the LORD, you alone’.

In response to Hezekiah’s prayer, Isaiah relayed a message from the LORD
assuring him that, because he had prayed, God was going to deliver Judah from
the hand of Sennacherib. In the first part of the message, God challenged
Sennacherib:

“Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? Against whom have you raised
your voice, and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel.”
(Isaiah 37:23)


                                                                         Page 235 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
A similar occurrence took place when Israel left Egypt. When Pharaoh pursued
Israel into the Red Sea, God caused the wheels of Pharaoh’s six hundred chariots
to fall off and Pharaoh exclaimed, ‘Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord
fights for them against the Egyptians." (Exodus 14:25). In other words, the war
against the people of the LORD was a war against the LORD of the people (Isaiah
37:22, 28, 29). God assured Sennacherib that He knew all about his going out
and coming in and his rage against Him:

“But I know your dwelling place, your going out and your coming in, and your
rage against Me. 29 Because your rage against Me and your tumult have come
up to My ears, therefore I will put My hook in your nose and My bridle in your lips,
and I will turn you back by the way which you came." (Isaiah 37:28, 29).

Then God assured Sennacherib that He would save a remnant in the city in His
Holy Mount and promised that Sennacherib would not come into the city:

“The remnant of those who have escaped shall take root for out of Jerusalem shall
go a remnant, and those who escape from Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of
hosts will do this. 33 "Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria:
'He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it
with shield, nor build a siege mound against it. 34 By the way that he came, by the
same shall he return; and he shall not come into this city,' Says the Lord. 35 'For
I will defend this city, to save it for My own sake and for My servant David's sake.'"
(Isaiah 37:31-35).

The very evening that Sennacherib gathered his troops to attack the city, God
intervened to deliver it:

“Then the angel of the Lord went out, and killed in the camp of the Assyrians one
hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when people arose early in the morning,
there were the corpses—all dead”.

Sennacherib, so to speak, with his tail between his legs, returned to Niniveh, the
capital of his empire where his own sons killed him:


                                                                         Page 236 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went away, returned home, and
remained at Nineveh. 38 Now it came to pass, as he was worshiping in the house
of Nisroch his god that his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him down with
the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat.” (Isaiah 37:36-38)

Isaiah 30:26ff describes the destruction of Sennacherib’s army. Ellen White
specifically quotes Isaiah 30 in an eschatological context when God will deliver
His people from the flooding of the symbolic River Euphrates:

“The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the
forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every
quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing
for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of
Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen. Saith the Lord; "Ye shall
have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept; and gladness of heart,
as when one goeth . . . to come into the mountain of the Lord, to the Mighty One of
Israel. And the Lord shall cause His glorious voice to be heard, and shall show the
lighting down of His arm, with the indignation of His anger, and with the flame of
a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones." Isaiah 30:29, 30.

With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness of
the night, falls upon the earth. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the
throne of God, spans the heavens and seems to encircle each praying company.
The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their mocking cries die away. The
objects of their murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings they gaze
upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its overpowering
brightness.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 636




                                                                         Page 237 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 238 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


           Lesson #14 – Isaiah 24:21-23: The Millennium
                            in the Old Testament



The Little Apocalypse

Theologians have referred to Isaiah 24-27 as ‘the little apocalypse’ because it
has many affinities with the book of Revelation, particularly the last three
chapters. In this study will focus particularly on chapter 24 as the backdrop for
Revelation 20.

A Global Cataclysmic Catastrophe

Isaiah 24 describes the cataclysmic events that will occur during the
outpouring of the last three plagues of Revelation 16:

Isaiah 24:1-4

“Behold, the LORD makes the earth empty and makes it waste, distorts its
surface and scatters abroad its inhabitants. And it shall be: as with the people,
so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so
with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with

                                                                         Page 239 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor. The land shall be entirely
emptied and utterly plundered, for the LORD has spoken this word. The earth
mourns and fades away, the world languishes and fades away; the haughty
people of the earth languish.”

The Roman Catholic scholar, Frederick Moriarty wrote about the cataclysmic
events in these verses:

“God’s word had once established order in the world (Genesis 1); the picture is
that of a return to primeval chaos.” Frederick Moriarty, The Jerome Biblical
Commentary, volume 1, p. 277

This chapter describes the de-creation of planet earth. The end of the chapter
continues the description of the devastating effect of the global earthquake that
will shake the earth when God pours out the seventh plague (Revelation 16:17-
21).

Isaiah 24:18-20

“And it shall be that he who flees from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit,
and he who comes up from the midst of the pit shall be caught in the snare; for
the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth are
shaken. The earth is violently broken, the earth is split open; the earth is
shaken exceedingly. The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall
totter like a hut; its transgression shall be heavy upon it, and it will fall, and not
rise again.”

This description reminds us of Revelation 6:15-17 where the wicked will be
searching for places to hide and crying out for the rocks to fall on them as Jesus
descends from heaven.




                                                                         Page 240 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
How many are Left?

Verse 6 describes the devastating impact of the earthquake upon the
inhabitants of the planet:

Isaiah 24:6

“Therefore the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell in it are
desolate. Therefore, the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men are
left.”

This verse leaves us with a question. Who are the men that will be left when
this global catastrophe occurs? We know for a fact that when Jesus comes, all
the wicked inhabitants of the earth will perish so this must mean that those
who are left are the righteous.

It is commonly believed that those who are ‘taken’ when Jesus comes are the
righteous and those who are ‘left’ are the wicked; however, the opposite is true.
The word ‘left’ refers to a remnant that remains alive after a cataclysm (see
my book, “Taken or Left?” at SecretsUnsealed.org). When the flood came, only
Noah and his family were left:

Genesis 7:22, 23, NKJV

“So He destroyed all living things which were on the face of the ground: Both
man and cattle, creeping thing and bird of the air. They were destroyed from the
earth. Only Noah and those who were with him in the ark remained alive.”

Genesis 7:23: ESV

“Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark.”

Isaiah 24:6 tells us that when the global cataclysm comes, ‘few’ men will be ‘left’.
1 Peter 3:20 tells us that the ‘few’ who remained alive at the flood were Noah
and his family:

                                                                         Page 241 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
1 Peter 3:20

“. . . in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water.”

It is curious that every time that Ellen White quoted Isaiah 24:6 she left out the
last sentence in the verse that says ‘few men are left’. Here is one example:
"The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken
this word." "Because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance,
broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore, hath the curse devoured the earth,
and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore, the inhabitants of the earth
are burned." Isaiah 24:1, 3, 5, 6.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 657

Perhaps Ellen White did not want anyone to assume that when the cataclysm
comes some wicked people will survive.

Heavenly Hosts and Kings of the Earth Punished

As noted before, Isaiah 24:18-20 describes the seventh plague. When Jesus
comes, He will punish two groups of wicked beings, the exalted ones and the
kings of the earth.

Isaiah 24:21, NKJV

“It shall come to pass in that day that the LORD will punish on high the host of
exalted ones, and on the earth the kings of the earth.”

Isaiah 24:21, RSV

“In that day the Lord will punish the powers in the heavens above and the kings
on the earth below.”

The first group to be punished is heavenly and the second is earthly. We know
that the kings of the earth are the earthly group (Revelation 19:19) but who is
the heavenly group? The New Testament provides the answer:


                                                                         Page 242 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Ephesians 6:12

“For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood [human beings] but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age,
against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.”

In Scripture the heavenly hosts are angels (cf. 2 Chronicles 18:18; Luke 2:13,
14) and the expression ‘flesh and blood’ refers to human beings (Hebrews
2:14). The apostle Paul assures us that we are not warring against mere human
beings but rather against heavenly powers. Elsewhere the apostle Paul calls
Satan “the prince of the power of the air.” (Ephesians 2:2). Thus, the host of
heaven here refers to Satan and his angels.

Who are the kings of the earth that will be punished when Jesus comes?
Revelation 19 provides the answer:

Revelation 19:19

“And I saw the beast, the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together
to make war against Him who sat on the horse and against His army.”

The punishment of the heavenly and earthly groups will consist of two stages.
The first stage will be imprisonment in the bottomless pit.

First Stage of Punishment

Isaiah 24:22, first part

“They will be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and will be
shut up in the prison.”

The ‘pit’ is a place where dead people are cast and living persons are
incarcerated. When Joseph arrived in Dothan, his brothers cast him alive into
a pit:



                                                                         Page 243 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Genesis 37:24

“Then they took him and cast him into a pit and the pit was empty; there was no
water in it.”

Likewise, the enemies of Jeremiah cast him alive into a pit:

Jeremiah 38:6

“So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the dungeon of Malchiah the king's son,
which was in the court of the prison, and they let Jeremiah down with ropes. And
in the dungeon there was no water, but mire. So Jeremiah sank in the mire.”

Both Joseph and Jeremiah were cast alive into cisterns. Cisterns were perfect
places to cast prisoners when the cisterns were dry. The word ‘pit’ in Isaiah 24
and Genesis 37:24 are identical as is the word ‘dungeon’ in Jeremiah. The pit
was a place of temporary confinement until a final decision could be made
on what to do with Joseph and Jeremiah.

However, the pit was not only a place of confinement for the living. Dead people
were also cast into cisterns:

Isaiah 38:18

“For Sheol cannot thank You, death cannot praise You; those who go down to the
pit cannot hope for Your truth.”

In this text, the word ‘pit’ is used synonymously with death and the grave (see
also Jeremiah 41:7, 9). We shall see below that Satan and his angels will be
confined to the pit in a living state while the kings of the earth will be confined
there while they are dead.




                                                                         Page 244 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Satan’s Place of Confinement

Where will Satan be cast for a thousand years immediately after the second
coming of Jesus?

Revelation 20:2, 3

“He laid hold of the dragon, that serpent of old, who is the Devil and Satan, and
bound him for a thousand years; and he cast him into the bottomless pit
[abussos], and shut him up, and set a seal on him, so that he should deceive the
nations no more till the thousand years were finished. But after these things he
must be released for a little while.”

Revelation 20:7 explains that after the thousand years Satan will be released
from his prison for the second stage of his punishment.

Satan’s Wicked Followers

Satan’s wicked followers will remain dead in the ‘pit’ during the thousand
years:

Revelation 20:5
“But the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were
finished.”

Many Days = 1000 Years

Satan, his angels and the kings of the earth will be imprisoned in the pit for
many days:

Isaiah 24:22, last part

“After many days they will be punished.”

A careful reading of Isaiah 24:21, 22 clearly reveals that the punishment of
Satan and the wicked kings of the earth will be meted out in two distinct

                                                                         Page 245 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
stages. The first stage will imprison them for many days (Revelation’s
millennium) after which they will finally and definitively be punished.

New Jerusalem Descends

At the end of the ‘many days’, the New Jerusalem will descend from heaven.

Revelation 21:2

“Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from
God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.”

The Sun and the Moon

After the millennium, the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed in the
city:

Isaiah 24:23

“Then the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed; for the LORD of hosts
will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before His elders, gloriously.”

Revelation 21:23

“The city had no need of the sun or of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God
illuminated it. The Lamb is its light.”

The text does not say that there will not be any sun or moon in the new heavens
and the new earth. After all, there will be monthly and weekly cycles there
(see Isaiah 66:22, 23; Revelation 22:2). What we are told is that the city has no
need of sun or moon. The light of the sun and moon will be like shinning the
light of a flashlight at high noon.




                                                                         Page 246 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Satan, his Angels and the Wicked Finally Punished

After the ‘many days’ of the millennium, the wicked dead are released from
their prison because they live again (Revelation 20:5) and Satan is also released
because he has his power base back. Revelation 20:7 uses the word ‘prison’
that appeared in Isaiah 24:22. Satan and the wicked will then suffer the
second and final stage of their punishment.

Revelation 20:7-9

“Now when the thousand years have expired, Satan will be released from his
prison 8 and will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of
the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, whose number is as
the sand of the sea. 9 They went up on the breadth of the earth and surrounded the
camp of the saints and the beloved city. And fire came down from God out of
heaven and devoured them.”

The Future Life

Revelation 21:1

“Now I saw a new heavens and a new earth for the first heaven and the first
earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea.”

Revelation 21:4

“And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more pain,
nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more death, for the former things have
passed away."

Isaiah 25:8

“He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from
all faces; the rebuke of His people, He will take away from all the earth; for the
LORD has spoken.”

                                                                         Page 247 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Isaiah 24:23

“Then the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed; for the LORD of hosts
will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before His elders, gloriously.”




                                                                         Page 248 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


    Lesson #15 – The Millennium: Changing the Ordinance



Introduction
Some Old Testament scholars have referred to Isaiah 24-27 as the little
Apocalypse of the Old Testament because it has many elements in common
with the book of Revelation. In this study we want to take a look some elements
that we find in Isaiah 24.

A Picture of the Second Coming

Isaiah 24:17-23

“Fear and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth. 18 And it
shall be that he who flees from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit, and he
who comes up from the midst of the pit shall be caught in the snare; for the
windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth are shaken. 19
The earth is violently broken, the earth is split open, the earth is shaken
exceedingly. 20 The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall totter
like a hut; its transgression shall be heavy upon it, and it will fall, and not rise
again. 21 It shall come to pass in that day that the LORD will punish on high the host


                                                                         Page 249 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
of exalted ones, and on the earth the kings of the earth. 22 They will be gathered
together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and will be shut up in the prison;
after many days they will be punished. 23 Then the moon will be disgraced and the
sun ashamed; for the LORD of hosts will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and
before His elders, gloriously.”

Here is a summary of the man details of the verses quoted above:

    A global catastrophe or cataclysm—the second coming of Christ.
    God punishes Satan, his angels and the wicked kings of the earth by
     shutting them up in prison.
    They remain in prison for many days, that is, one thousand years.
    After the thousand years there is the second and final stage of
     punishment.
    After the thousand years the New Jerusalem and Mt. Zion come to view.
    In the city, the sun and moon are ashamed.
    God reigns in Zion and Jerusalem before His ancients (elders)
     gloriously.
This entire scene is a description of global events that occur before, during and
after the thousand years. The picture is one of a global cataclysm.

Three Reasons for Defilement

Let’s take a look at Isaiah 24:5, 6:

“The earth mourns and fades away, the world languishes and fades away; the
haughty people of the earth languish. The earth is also defiled under its
inhabitants, because they have [1] transgressed the laws, [2] changed the
ordinance, and [3] broken the everlasting covenant.”

The Hebrew word ‘defiled’ means ‘to soil, to corrupt, to pollute morally’ (cf.
Jeremiah 3:9; Jeremiah 23:11).


                                                                         Page 250 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The earth was defiled by its inhabitants for three parallel reasons:

    They transgressed the laws.
    They changed the ordinance.
    They broke the everlasting covenant.

Consequences of the Three Reasons

What are the consequences for the three reasons that defiled the earth? The
word ‘therefore’ in Isaiah 24:6 provides the answer:

“Therefore, the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell in it are
desolate. Therefore, the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men are
left.”

Let’s consider each of the three reasons for the defilement of the earth by its
inhabitants.

Transgressed the laws

A comparison with other verses of the Bible clearly reveals which laws Isaiah
refers to. The identical word appears in Nehemiah 9:13-14 and links Mt. Sinai,
the Law and the Sabbath:

Nehemiah 9:13, 14

“You came down also on Mount Sinai and spoke with them from heaven, and
gave them just ordinances and true laws, good statutes and commandments. 14
You made known to them Your holy Sabbath and commanded them precepts,
statutes and laws by the hand of Moses Your servant.”

Someone might object that the Hebrew Torah also describes requirements of
the ceremonial law. Although this is true, Isaiah 24:5 cannot refer to the
transgression of ceremonial laws because they passed away when Jesus died
on the cross. God would not punish the world for breaking laws that were no

                                                                         Page 251 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
longer binding! Therefore, these must be perpetual laws that apply to the
entire human race at all times.

Incidentally, it is possible that originally the word Torah was singular because
the Syriac, the LXX and the Chaldee all have the word Torah in singular.

The New Testament defines sin as ‘transgression of the law’ and predicts that
the transgression of the law will characterize the world shortly before the
second coming.

1 John 3:4

“Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the
transgression of the law.” [anomías].”

According to Matthew 24:12 the final generation will be a lawless one. Why
would God condemn the world for lawlessness if the law was nailed to the
cross? Jesus predicted that the love of many would grow cold in the end time
because of lawlessness.

Matthew 24:12

“And because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow cold.”

Not only will secular people be lawless in the end time but also many who
claimed the name of Jesus. According to Jesus, these counterfeit believers will
even perform signs and wonders in His name. However, Jesus will refuse to
recognize them as His because they are transgressors of the Law.

Matthew 7:23

“And then I will declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from Me, you who
practice lawlessness [anomías]!'




                                                                         Page 252 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Hebrews 1:8

The wicked end time generation will stand in contrast to Jesus who hated
lawlessness because the law was in His heart (Psalm 40:7, 8).

“But to the Son He says: "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; a scepter of
righteousness is the scepter of Your Kingdom. You have loved righteousness and
hated lawlessness [anomías]; therefore, God, Your God, has anointed You with
the oil of gladness more than Your companions."

In 2 Thessalonians 2:7 apostle Paul refers to the work of the final Antichrist as
the ‘mystery of lawlessness’ [anomías].

Changed the Ordinance

Isaiah 24:6 refers to the change of a particular ordinance because the word is
in singular. Let’s determine first of all the meaning of the word ‘change’?

    Laban changed Jacob’s salary ten times (Genesis 31:7).
    Joseph changed his garments before he appeared before Pharaoh
     (Genesis 41:14).
    The Hebrew word is also translated ‘abolish’ (Isaiah 2:18) and ‘alter’
     (Leviticus 27:10)
What is the root meaning of the word ‘ordinance’?

Lexicographers explain that the original Hebrew root of the word choq means
‘to scratch or engrave cutting in or engraving in stone.’ Thus, according to the
best Hebrew scholars, the original root means ‘to engrave laws upon slabs of
stone or metal to set them in a public place.’ Jack P. Lewis, Theological
Wordbook of the Old Testament, volume 1, p. 317.

According to Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew Lexicon the word means: “. . . to
cut in, to cut upon, to engrave, to inscribe, to trace and to mark out”



                                                                         Page 253 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The word frequently appears accompanied by other words for law in the Old
Testament such as ‘word’, ‘testimony’, ‘law’, ‘judgment’ and ‘commandment’.

“The word's synonyms are mitswah, ‘commandment’; mishpat, ‘judgment’; berit,
‘covenant’; torah, ‘law’; and `edut, ‘testimony.’ It is not easy to distinguish between
these synonyms, as they are often found in conjunction with each other.” Vine's
Expository Dictionary of Biblical Words, Copyright (c) 1985, Thomas Nelson
Publishers)

The word choq describes unchangeable decrees that God established at
creation:

    The creation decree which keeps the sea contained within its bounds:
      Proverbs 8:29

      NIV: “. . . when he gave the sea its boundary [choq: decree, KJV] so the
      waters would not overstep his command, and when he marked out the
      foundations of the earth.”

      Job 38:8-11

      NIV: “Who shut up the sea behind doors when it burst forth from the womb
      [at creation the world was filled with water], when I made the clouds its
      garment and wrapped it in thick darkness, when I fixed limits [choq] for
      it and set its doors and bars in place, when I said, 'This far you may come
      and no farther; here is where your proud waves halt'?”

    The creation decree that keeps the heavenly bodies in their orbits:
      Psalm 148:3, 6
      NKJV: “Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all you stars of light . . .
      Praise him, you highest heavens and you waters above the skies. Let them
      praise the name of the LORD for he commanded and they were created.
      He set them in place for ever and ever; he gave a decree [choq] that will
      never pass away.”

                                                                         Page 254 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   God’s decree that causes the rain to fall in its due season:
      Job 28:25, 26

      NIV: “When he established the force of the wind and measured out the
      waters, when he made a decree [choq] for the rain and a path for the
      thunderstorm.”

   God’s decree which guarantees the regularity of the seasons of harvest:
      Jeremiah 5:24

      NIV: “They do not say to themselves, 'Let us fear the LORD our God, who
      gives autumn and spring rains in season, who assures us of the regular
      [choq] weeks of harvest.'

   The word choq describes how God made an everlasting covenant with
    Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, an oath that could not be changed.
      1 Chronicles 16:17
      NIV: “The covenant he made with Abraham, the oath he swore to Isaac. He
      confirmed it to Jacob as a decree [choq], to Israel as an everlasting
      covenant.”

      Psalms 89:34: Later, God promised to David:

      NKJV: “My covenant I will not break, nor alter the word that has gone out
      of My lips.”

God engraved the Ten Commandments upon tables of stone with His own
finger to emphasize their permanence and unchangeable nature.

Exodus 32:16-17

“Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God
engraved on the tablets.”




                                                                         Page 255 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The change of the ordinance reminds us of the little horn in Daniel 7:25 who
intended to change God’s Law. We are reminded that the root meaning of the
word choq is ‘to etch or engrave’. What change did the papacy attempt to make
in the law that God engraved on tables of stone? What divine ordinance that
God established at creation and engraved in the Ten Commandments did the
papacy attempt to change? The answer is the Sabbath. Actually, the present day
papacy is also guilty of accepting another change in God’s creation order,
marriage!

The first ordinance that God established at creation was marriage between a
man and a woman and the second was the Sabbath. Regarding the origin of
these two institutions Ellen White wrote:

“Marriage was from the creation constituted by God a divine ordinance. The
marriage institution was made in Eden. The Sabbath of the fourth
commandment was instituted in Eden, when the foundations of the world were
laid, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for
joy. Then let this, God's institution of marriage, stand before you as firm as the
Sabbath of the fourth commandment.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies on Sexual
Behavior, Adultery and Divorce, p. 159

“The Sabbath was hallowed at the creation. As ordained [key word] for man, it
had its origin when ‘the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God
shouted for joy.’ Job 38:7. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 281
“I was shown that the law of God would stand fast forever, and exist in the new
earth to all eternity. At the creation, when the foundations of the earth were
laid, the sons of God looked with admiration upon the work of the Creator, and
all the heavenly host shouted for joy [Job 38:4-7]. It was then that the foundation
of the Sabbath was laid . . . I saw that the Sabbath never will be done away;
but that the redeemed saints and all the angelic host, will observe it in honor of
the great Creator to all eternity.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 217




                                                                         Page 256 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“Like the Sabbath, the week originated at creation, and it has been preserved
and brought down to us through Bible history. God Himself measured off [God
not only measured the geography of the earth but also the chronology] the
first week as a sample for successive weeks to the close of time. Like every other,
it consisted of seven literal days. Six days were employed in the work of creation;
upon the seventh, God rested, and He then blessed this day and set it apart as a
day of rest for man. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 111
“All those who hold the beginning of their confidence firm unto the end will keep
the seventh-day Sabbath, which comes to us as marked by the sun.” Ellen G.
White, Selected Message, vol. 3, pp. 318, 319
“The Creator of the heavens and the earth commanded, "The seventh day is the
Sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work." This command was
enforced by the example of its Author, proclaimed with his own voice, and
placed in the very bosom of the Decalogue. But the papal power has removed
[or changed] this divine ordinance [key word] and substituted a day that God
has not sanctified, and upon which he did not rest, the festival so long adored by
heathens as the "venerable day of the sun." Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times,
September 14, 1882

“The prophet thus points out the ordinance [key word] which has been forsaken:
‘Thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be
called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in. If thou turn
away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on My holy day; and call
the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable; and shalt honor Him, not
doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own
words: then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord.’ Verses 12-14. This prophecy
also applies in our time. The breach was made in the law of God when the Sabbath
was changed [notice the terminology] by the Roman power. But the time has
come for that divine institution to be restored. The breach is to be repaired and
the foundation of many generations to be raised up. Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 452, 453


                                                                         Page 257 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Conservative Christians today fight tooth and nail to defend marriage
between a man and a woman because God ordained it that way at creation.
They cry out against liberal culture’s attempt to change the marriage
institution from heterosexual to homosexual.

However, it is inconsistent to restore one creation ordinance—marriage—and
not the other—the Sabbath. It is contradictory to say that marriage must be
between a man and woman because God made it so at creation and in the same
breath say that Sabbath observance has been changed to Sunday. This kind of
double talk must come to an end. I challenge Bible believing Christians to
restore both creation institutions as God originally made them. After all, both
of these institutions are symbols of the relationship between God and His
people! If marriage is still a symbol of that relationship, why not the Sabbath?

Broken the Everlasting Covenant

The third sin that will defile the world and cause its destruction is breaking the
everlasting covenant. There is only one everlasting covenant that the Father
made with the Son in eternal ages past. The agreement was that if man sinned,
God would provide a substitute to restore man to his original condition.

The covenant has two aspects: [1] covenant law and [2] covenant sacrifice. The
violation of covenant law made the covenant sacrifice necessary.

Deuteronomy 4:12-13 describes covenant law:

“And the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of
the words, but saw no form; you only heard a voice. 13 So He declared to you His
covenant which He commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten
Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone.”

The covenant sacrifice in the Old Testament consisted of rites and ceremonies
that pointed forward to the one and only sacrifice of Christ. When have faith in
the sacrifice of Christ, He will work to write the law in our heart.


                                                                         Page 258 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Hebrews 8:10-12

“For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,
says the LORD: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts;
and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. 11 None of them shall teach
his neighbor, and none his brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' for all shall know Me,
from the least of them to the greatest of them. 12 For I will be merciful to their
unrighteousness, and their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no
more."

Isaiah 26:12: God works in us

“LORD, You will establish peace for us, for You have also done all our works in
us.”

Philippians 2:12-13

“Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only,
but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and
trembling; 13 for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good
pleasure.”

Ephesians 2:8-10

“For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is
the gift of God, 9 not of works, lest anyone should boast. 10 For we are His
workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared
beforehand that we should walk in them.”

Hebrews 13:20, 21

“Now may the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that
great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, 21
make you complete in every good work to do His will, working in you what is
well pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and
ever. Amen.”

                                                                         Page 259 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
How Can This Be Done?

Isaiah 26:1-3 and emphasize the word ‘stayed’ or fastened to:

“In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a strong city;
God will appoint salvation for walls and bulwarks. Open the gates that the
righteous nation that keeps the truth may enter in. You will keep him in perfect
peace, whose mind is stayed on You, because he trusts in You.”

Our mind must be stayed on Him. We do not become like Jesus by merely
glimpsing or glancing at Him once in a while but by lingering and dwelling
on Him.

2 Corinthians 3:18

“But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are
being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit
of the Lord.”

“By beholding Christ, by talking of Him, by beholding the loveliness of His
character we become changed. Changed from glory to glory. And what is glory?
Character—and he becomes changed from character to character. Thus we see
that there is a work of purification that goes on by beholding Jesus.” Ellen G.
White, Sons and Daughters of God, p. 337

Revelation 22:14, 15

“Blessed are those who do His commandments [Revelation 12:17; 14:12], that
they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into
the city. 15 But outside are dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and
murderers and idolaters, and whoever loves and practices a lie.”




                                                                         Page 260 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


   Lesson #16 – The Four Cycles of Revelation’s Millennium


The Millennium’s Beginning and Structural Matters

Revelation 19:11-21 describes the seventh plague followed by the second
coming of Jesus. By this time, the plagues have decimated the population of
the planet and only a few survivors are left.
Revelation 19:21
“And the rest [what remained after the plagues] were slain with the sword
which proceeded from the mouth of Him who sat on the horse.”
When Jesus arrives, he will send His angels to catch up the faithful into the
cloud and take them to heaven, a journey that will last seven days. Ellen White
vividly described the arrival in heaven:
“Here they stand, and the finishing touch of immortality is put upon them, and
they go up to meet their Lord in the air. The gates of the city of God swing back
upon their hinges, and the nations that have kept the truth enter in. There are
the columns of angels on either side, and the ransomed of God walk in through
the cherubim and seraphim. Christ bids them welcome and puts upon them His
benediction. "Well done, thou good and faithful servant: . . . enter thou into the joy

                                                                         Page 261 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
of thy Lord." What is that joy? He sees of the travail of His soul, and is satisfied.”
Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1093
The second coming of Jesus is followed by the millennium described in
Revelation 20:1-21:8. It is important to remember that the events this passage
are not in strict chronological order but rather run in four repetitive cycles
with each repetitive cycle reaching the same climax. Although there are four
repetitive cycles, each cycle has a different center of focus or emphasis:
   Revelation 20:1-3: Center of Focus: Satan and the condition of the
    earth.
   Revelation 20:4-10: Center of Focus: The saints in heaven.
   Revelation 20:11-21:1: Center of Focus: The judgment of the wicked.
   Revelation 21:2-8: Center of Focus: Future life in the Holy City.

Cycle #1: Satan and the Earth (20:1-3)

When probation closes, God will allow Satan to have entire control of the finally
impenitent. At this point God will give Satan free rein to wreak havoc on the
earth:
“As Jesus moved out of the most holy place, I heard the tinkling of the bells upon
His garment; and as He left, a cloud of darkness covered the inhabitants of the
earth. There was then no mediator between guilty man and an offended God.
While Jesus had been standing between God and guilty man, a restraint was upon
the people; but when He stepped out from between man and the Father, the
restraint was removed and Satan had entire control of the finally impenitent.”
Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 280

However, at the end of the time of trouble, a powerful angel will come down
from heaven with the key to the bottomless pit and a chain in his hand to bind
Satan for one thousand years. Having lost his followers to death, Satan will be
powerless:


                                                                         Page 262 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 20:1
“Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key to the bottomless
pit [abussos] and a great chain in his hand.”
We must link Revelation 20:1 with Genesis 1:2 (in the LXX) because the same
Greek word is used to describe the chaotic condition of the earth before
creation in Genesis and after the seven plagues in Revelation.
Genesis 1:2
“The earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep
[abussos in the LXX] and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the
waters.”
The translation ‘bottomless pit’ in Revelation 20:1 is unfortunate. There is
nothing literally bottomless about the pit. The Greek word is abussos from
where we get the English word ‘abyss’. As mentioned before, the Greek
translation (LXX) of the Old Testament word ‘deep’ (tehom) is the same as the
one in Revelation 20:1 (abussos).
This word in Genesis describes a planet in a disorderly and empty state before
creation week. In Revelation, just before the binding of Satan, the plagues of
Revelation 16 will reverse creation and return the earth, in a great degree,
to pre-creation chaos. The plagues will afflict the very things that God made
during creation week. We might say that the plagues cause de-creation!
    The planet returns to darkness.
    The surface of the earth is broken up.
    The sun, moon and stars are moved from their places (EW, p. 41;
     Matthew 24:29).
    The intense heat of the sun scorches all the vegetation.
    The water of the seas are turned into with blood.
    All the fish die.
    All the birds die.
    All human beings die!

                                                                         Page 263 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The earth is empty, disorderly and lifeless.
In vision, Jeremiah saw the condition of the earth at the second coming:

Jeremiah 4:19-26

“O my soul, my soul! I am pained in my very heart! My heart makes a noise in me;
I cannot hold my peace, because you have heard, O my soul, the sound of the
trumpet, the alarm of war. 20 Destruction upon destruction is cried, for the
whole land is plundered. Suddenly my tents are plundered, and my curtains in a
moment. 21 How long will I see the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?
22 "For My people are foolish, they have not known Me. They are silly children, and

they have no understanding. They are wise to do evil, but to do good they have no
knowledge." 23 I beheld the earth, and indeed it was without form, and void; and
the heavens, they had no light. 24 I beheld the mountains, and indeed they
trembled, and all the hills moved back and forth. 25 I beheld, and indeed there was
no man, and all the birds of the heavens had fled. 26 I beheld, and indeed the
fruitful land was a wilderness [the vegetation], and all its cities were broken
down at the presence of the Lord, by His fierce anger.”

However, God told Jeremiah that the desolation of the earth at the second
coming would not yet be the full end:

Jeremiah 4:27

“For thus says the Lord: "The whole land shall be desolate; yet I will not make a
full end.”

In the passage that follows, Jeremiah saw the Lord coming with a shout (cf. 1
Thessalonians 4:16) treading the winepress (cf. Revelation 14:17-20; 19:15)
at His coming and then predicted that those slain with the Lord’s sword (cf.
Revelation 19:21) would not be lamented, gathered or buried but would be as
refuse upon the ground:




                                                                         Page 264 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Jeremiah 25:30-38
“Therefore prophesy against them all these words, and say to them: 'The Lord will
roar from on high, and utter His voice from His holy habitation; He will roar
mightily against His fold. He will give a shout, as those who tread the grapes,
against all the inhabitants of the earth. 31 A noise will come to the ends of the
earth—for the Lord has a controversy with the nations; He will plead His case
with all flesh. He will give those who are wicked to the sword,' says the Lord." 32
Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Behold, disaster shall go forth from nation to nation,
and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the farthest parts of the earth. 33
"And at that day the slain of the Lord shall be from one end of the earth even to
the other end of the earth. They shall not be lamented, or gathered, or buried;
they shall become refuse on the ground.”
The ‘Little Apocalypse’ in the book of Isaiah describes the devastation of the
earth at the second coming:
Isaiah 24:1-6
“The land shall be entirely emptied and utterly plundered, for the Lord has
spoken this word. 4 The earth mourns and fades away, the world languishes and
fades away; the haughty people of the earth languish. 5 The earth is also defiled
under its inhabitants, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the
ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant. 6 Therefore the curse has devoured
the earth, and those who dwell in it are desolate. Therefore the inhabitants of the
earth are burned, and few men are left. . . The earth is violently broken, the earth
is split open, the earth is shaken exceedingly. 20 The earth shall reel to and fro
like a drunkard, and shall totter like a hut; its transgression shall be heavy upon
it, and it will fall, and not rise again.”

The mighty angel chained Satan in the abyss so that he could not deceive the
nations during the millennium:




                                                                         Page 265 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 20:2-3

“He laid hold of the dragon, that serpent of old, who is the Devil and Satan, and
bound him for a thousand years; 3 and he cast him into the bottomless pit, and
shut him up, and set a seal on him, so that [the reason] should deceive the
nations no more till the thousand years were finished. But after these things he
must be released for a little while.”

God will bind Satan on an earth that has returned to pre-creation disorder and
emptiness. How could human beings live on the planet when the seas and fresh
waters are all blood, the air has the stench of the dead, the planet is pitch dark
because God has moved the heavenly bodies out of their places and there is no
plant or animal life? The binding of Satan means that he cannot deceive the
nations because there are no nations to deceive. However, after the millennium
God will release Satan for a little while. It remains to be seen what releasing
Satan means.

The punishment of Satan reminds us of the fate of the scapegoat on the Day of
Atonement. The scapegoat was bound by a fit man and then taken to the
wilderness where there were no inhabitants:

Leviticus 16:21, 22

“Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, confess over it all the
iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, concerning all their
sins, putting them on the head of the goat, and shall send it away into the
wilderness by the hand of a suitable man. 22 The goat shall bear on itself all their
iniquities to an uninhabited land; and he shall release the goat in the
wilderness.”

The first cycle (20:1-3) runs full circle because it describes events at the
beginning, during and after the millennium. However, questions remain after
the first outline. Some of the questions are these:



                                                                         Page 266 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
   1. What happened to the righteous during this period?
   2. Were the righteous on earth or in heaven?
   3. What did the righteous do during the thousand years?
   4. What does it mean to ‘bind’ and ‘unbind’?
   5. What happened to the wicked persons who died at the second coming?
   6. What did Satan deceive the nations to do after the thousand years?
   7. What will happen to Satan after He deceives the nations?

Cycle #2: The Saints (20:4-10)

The second millennial cycle focuses on what happens to the righteous before,
during and after the millennium.
The apostle Paul explained that the dead in Christ would rise first and then
those who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air:
1 Thessalonians 4:16-17
“For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an
archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. 17
Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord.”

Revelation 20:6 describes the resurrection of the righteous at the second
coming as the first resurrection:
Revelation 20:6
“Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over such the
second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and
shall reign with Him a thousand years.”




                                                                         Page 267 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Jesus then takes His people to the Father’s house in heaven:

John 14:1-3

"Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God, believe also in Me. 2 In My
Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go
to prepare a place for you. 3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also."
During the thousand years the righteous will perform a work of judgment and
reign with Jesus:
Revelation 20:4
“And I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was committed to
them. Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to
Jesus and for the word of God, who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and
had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands [these are the
martyrs that died during the little time of trouble just before the close of
probation—see Matthew 24:9]. And they lived and reigned with Christ for a
thousand years.”
Note: The question is this: Who are the righteous going to judge during the
thousand years? Clearly, they will not judge the righteous because they are
already in heaven. Moreover, they will not judge the holy angels because holy
beings do not need to be judged. This must mean that they will judge Satan and
his angels as well as the wicked who remained on earth during the thousand
years.

The apostle Paul wrote that he and the Corinthians will judge the world and
angels. Clearly, not only the end time martyrs will perform the work of
judgment but also all the saved, including the Corinthian church and the apostle
Paul:




                                                                         Page 268 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
1 Corinthians 6:1-3
“Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the
unrighteous, and not before the saints? 2 Do you not know that the saints will
judge the world? And if the world will be judged by you, are you unworthy to
judge the smallest matters? 3 Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How
much more, things that pertain to this life?”
The righteous who resurrect in the first resurrection will not be subject to the
second death after the thousand years:
Revelation 20:6
“Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over such the second
death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign
with Him a thousand years.”
Revelation 20:5
“But the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were
finished.”
Note: All beings in this world have experienced a first birth and life. When the
millennium begins, those who died in Christ will resurrect to their ‘second life’
never to die again. On the other hand, the wicked will resurrect to their ‘second
life’ after the thousand years, the saints will judge them and then they will suffer
second death.
However, the translation of Revelation 20:5 in many Bible versions is
problematic. As is well known, the ancient New Testament manuscripts did not
have punctuation marks so the translators have added them where they think
they belong. The King James and New King James translation of Revelation
20:4-6 is confusing because it leaves the impression that those who resurrect
at the end of the thousand years will resurrect in the first resurrection. Here are
verses 4-6 as they stand in the NKJV:
“And I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was committed to
them. Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to

                                                                         Page 269 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Jesus and for the word of God, who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and
had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. And they lived
and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. But the rest of the dead did not live
again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed
and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over such the second death
has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with
Him a thousand years.”
This seeming problem is easily resolved by placing parentheses around the part
of verse 5 that reads, ‘the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand
years were finished’. This is not some Adventist solution to the problem. Many
modern versions do just this, including the New International Version, Today’s
English Version, the New Living Translation, the New Revised Standard
Version, the Phillips Version, the Complete Jewish Bible, the Good News Bible
and the New Century Version: Here is how verses 4-6 look when we skip the
sentence in verse 5 that says, “But the rest of the dead did not live again until
the thousand years were finished.”
“And I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was committed to
them. Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to
Jesus and for the word of God, who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and
had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. And they lived
and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. [skipping the last part of verse
5] This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first
resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests
of God and of Christ, and shall reign with Him a thousand years.”
At the end of the millennium God will release Satan from his prison:
Revelation 20:7, 8
“Now when the thousand years have expired, Satan will be released from his
prison 8 and will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of
the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, whose number is
as the sand of the sea.”

                                                                         Page 270 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
This might be a good place to explain what is meant by the ‘binding and
unbinding’ of Satan. Another reference to ‘captivity’ in Revelation will help us
understand the meaning.
During the 1260 years, the papacy used the power of the kings of Europe to
accomplish her purposes. However, at the end of this period, the papacy
received a deadly wound when the kings of Europe withdrew their support.
This withdrawal of support is referred to as the papacy going into captivity
(Revelation 13:9, 10). That is to say, when the papacy had the support of the
kings of Europe, she had power and was free. However, when the kings no
longer supported her, she was bound and in captivity.
Something similar will happen to Satan during the millennium. During the time
of trouble, Satan will be free and powerful because he has the support of the
civil powers of the world to implement his agenda. However, at the second
coming Satan’s power base will all die and as a result he will be in captivity. In
other words, Satan is loose when his power base is alive, he is bound when his
power base is dead, and he will be loose again when his power base resurrects.
Thus, Revelation 20:5 contains the key that explains the binding and
unbinding of Satan.
There is a striking parallel between the events before and after the millennium.
Before the thousand years God’s people will be in spiritual Jerusalem
(Revelation 14:17-20) and after in literal Jerusalem (Revelation 20:7-9). Both
before and after the cards will appear to be stacked against those who are in
Jerusalem—the hordes of the wicked will be like the sand of the sea (Revelation
17:15; 20:8).
Both before and after, God’s people will appear to be in jeopardy. Both before
and after the wicked will prepare for battle against the city (Revelation 16:12,
16; 20:7-9). Both before and after the battle never takes place. Before the
thousand years God will reveal in the heavens to the wicked multitudes that the
religious leaders have deceived them and the same will happen after with Satan
(Revelation 16:1, 2; 20:13). Both before and after the multitudes will turn


                                                                         Page 271 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
against the deceivers—the religious leaders before and against Satan after
(Revelation 16:12; Ezekiel 28:1-9). Both before and after God will deliver His
people.
Revelation 20:9, 10
“They went up on the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the
saints and the beloved city and fire came down from God out of heaven and
devoured them. The devil, who deceived them, was cast into the lake of fire and
brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are and they will be tormented
day and night forever and ever.”
The second cycle in Revelation 20:4-10 focuses on the role of the saints at the
beginning, during and after the millennium. That does not mean that Satan and
the wicked are not mentioned in the second cycle because they are. However,
Satan and the wicked are mentioned only as they relate to the righteous. When
the second cycle ends, several questions remain unanswered:

   1. What was the judgment process during the one thousand years like?
   2. Why were those inside the city saved and those outside lost?
   3. What is the name of the city that the wicked surrounded?
   4. Did Satan and the wicked ever attack the city?
   5. Were the wicked ever convinced that they were wrong and God was
      right?
   6. When did the saints enter the city?

Cycle #3: The Wicked (20:11 - 21:1)

Revelation 20:11-21:1 contains the third cycle of millennial events. This
passage goes over the same ground as the previous two outlines but the
central concern is with the judgment of the wicked after the millennium.
However, events before, during and after come into view as well.
After the thousand years the rest of the dead live again and Satan has his
power base back (Revelation 20:5). The third cycle begins with the second


                                                                         Page 272 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
coming of Jesus right before the millennium begins. Jesus comes sitting on a
white throne:
Revelation 20:11
“Then I saw a great white throne and Him who sat on it, from whose face the
heaven and the earth fled away and there was found no place for them.”
Revelation 20:11 is parallel to Revelation 6:14-17. In both Jesus is sitting on a
throne and in both the heavens recede as a scroll and the earth flees away:
Revelation 6:14-17
“. . . then the sky receded as a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and
island was moved out of its place. 15 And the kings of the earth, the great men,
the rich men, the commanders, the mighty men, every slave and every free man,
hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains, 16 and said to the
mountains and rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who sits on the
throne and from the wrath of the Lamb! For the great day of His wrath has come,
and who is able to stand?"
Revelation 20:12
“And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and books were
opened and another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead
were judged according to their works, by the things which were written in the
books.”
This text describes the millennial judgment of the wicked. At this point the
righteous will be in heaven and the wicked will all be dead on earth. The apostle
Paul wrote that the saints will judge the world as well as Satan and his angels
(1 Corinthians 6:1-3). In the second cycle we saw that judgment was
committed to those who came forth in the first resurrection. Revelation 20:12
describes how that judgment transpired during the millennium.
It is obvious that dead people cannot literally stand before God in the judgment.
The text explicitly states that the wicked dead stood before God through the

                                                                         Page 273 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
record of their lives in the books. In the fourth outline we will see a sampling of
the wicked things in the books that condemned the wicked.
A few years ago when I taught that Revelation 20:12 refers to the millennial
judgment of the wicked someone objected saying that Ellen White applies this
verse to the pre-Advent investigative judgment rather than the millennial
judgment. I pointed out that Ellen White does indeed apply this verse to the
pre-Advent judgment (GC, p. 480) but she also applies it to the post-millennial
judgment because the process will be similar (GC, pp. 665, 666).
Revelation 20:13 describes the post-millennial resurrection of the wicked to
witness the reason why God excluded them from the city:
Revelation 20:13
“The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the
dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one according to his works.”
The expressions ‘gave up’ and ‘delivered up’ refer to the resurrection of the
dead who were judged in absentia during the thousand years. Isaiah 26:19 uses
a similar expression to refer to the resurrection:
Isaiah 26:19
“Your dead shall live; together with my dead body they shall arise. Awake and
sing, you who dwell in dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth
shall cast out the dead.”

We know that the judgment in Revelation 20:13 occurs on earth because,
according to verses 7-9 the wicked will surround the New Jerusalem on earth
after the millennium.

Although we are saved by grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8, 9), we are judged
by works because our works reveal whether our faith is genuine. In the
judgment, the entire universe will see that not only were the incorrigibly



                                                                         Page 274 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
wicked condemned by their works, but also many who claimed to follow Jesus
and said, ‘Lord, Lord’ but whose lives contradicted their profession.

The book of life contains the names of all the saved (Revelation 3:5; 13:8;
Philippians 4:3; Exodus 32:32; Daniel 12:1 and the reason why the book of life
is brought to view in the post-millennial judgment is to show the wicked that
their names are not in it (see Revelation 20:15).

The names of the lost will not be in the Book of Life because of the record of
their lives that were written in the books. In the third cycle we do not yet know
what those works were. The fourth cycle will reveal some of the sins that
excluded the wicked from the Book of Life. It is remarkable that God will not
destroy the wicked until they have had their day in court and agree that God
was right in excluding them from the Book of Life.

After the wicked have had their day in court, God will cast them into the lake of
fire and they will suffer second death:

Revelation 20:14-15
“Then Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
15 And anyone not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire.”


Revelation 20:14, 15 reaches the same climax as we saw in Revelation 20:8, 9.
After all, there are not two lakes of fire! After Satan and his angels, the wicked,
and death and the grave are consumed in the lake of fire, God will create a new
heaven and a new earth because the first heaven and earth have passed away:
Revelation 21:1
“Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first
earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea.”
The chapter division at the end of verse 15 is unfortunate. The original writers
of Scripture did not include chapters and verses in the text; for our convenience,
they were added much later. Revelation 21:1 should really be the concluding


                                                                         Page 275 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
verse of chapter 20. In other words, after the destruction of Satan, his angels,
the wicked, the grave and death, God will make a new heaven and a new earth.
In short, Revelation 21:1 is the conclusion of chapter 20 and not the
introduction to chapter 21.
“The sea divides friends. It is a barrier between us and those whom we love. Our
associations are broken up by the broad, fathomless ocean. In the new earth there
will be no more sea, and there shall pass there "no galley with oars." In the past
many who have loved and served God have been bound by chains to their seats in
galleys, compelled to serve the purpose of cruel, hardhearted men. The Lord has
looked upon their suffering in sympathy and compassion. Thank God, in the earth
made new there will be no fierce torrents, no engulfing ocean, no restless,
murmuring waves” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 33, 1911.
The apostle Peter described the cleansing of the world by fire followed by the
creation of a new heaven and a new earth:
2 Peter 3:10-13
“But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will
pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat; both
the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. 11 Therefore, since all
these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy
conduct and godliness, 12 looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God,
because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements
will melt with fervent heat? 13 Nevertheless we, according to His promise, look for
new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.”

After the conclusion of the third millennial cycle, questions still remain:
   1. What qualified the righteous to be in the city?
   2. What did the books contain that condemned the wicked?
   3. Were the righteous in heaven or on earth during the millennium?




                                                                         Page 276 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      If the saints will judge and reign for one thousand years but the city does
      not descend until after the 1000 years then the saints must have been
      in heaven in the holy city during the 1000 years).
  4. What will it be like to live in the New Jerusalem?
The last millennial cycle will answer these questions.


Cycle #4: Promises to the Overcomers (Revelation 21:2-8)

Revelation 21:2 begins the final cycle of post-millennial events. This outline
begins when John sees the New Jerusalem descend from heaven to earth:
Revelation 21:2
“. . . holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared
as a bride adorned for her husband.”
Revelation 20:7-9 tells us that the New Jerusalem is on the earth when the
wicked surround it. This means that the New Jerusalem must have descended
from heaven to earth before the wicked surrounded it. This being the case,
Revelation 21:2 occurs chronologically before Revelation 21:1. In the fourth
cycle the city is finally described by name. Before, Revelation referred to it as
the city (Revelation 14:20) and the beloved city (Revelation 20:8).
There are two clear reasons why we know that the saints will come down from
heaven with the city at the end of the millennium:
    1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17 and John 14:1-3 tell us that Jesus will take His
     people to heaven at the second coming. This being the case, they must
     come down from heaven with the city after the thousand years.
    The condition of the earth during the millennium would make it
     impossible for the saints to survive here.
All the promises that we find in verses 3-8 are future from the point of time the
city descends from heaven. In other words, when the loud voice makes these
promises, the post-millennial judgment has not occurred neither the

                                                                         Page 277 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
destruction of the wicked. The destruction of the wicked does not transpire
until verse 8.
“And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, "Behold, the tabernacle of God is
with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people. God Himself
will be with them and be their God. 4 And God will wipe away every tear from
their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be
no more pain, for the former things have passed away."
“We are homeward bound. He who loved us so much as to die for us hath built for
us a city. The New Jerusalem is our place of rest. There will be no sadness in the
City of God. No wail of sorrow, no dirge of crushed hopes and buried affections,
will evermore be heard. Soon the garments of heaviness will be changed for the
wedding garment. Soon we shall witness the coronation of our King. Those whose
lives have been hidden with Christ, those who on this earth have fought the good
fight of faith, will shine forth with the Redeemer's glory in the kingdom of God.”
Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 542, 543
Revelation 21:6
“And He said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and
the End. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts.”
Once again, the verbs are in the future tense which means that at this point the
millennial judgment has not taken place and the wicked have not yet been
destroyed.
We can even now drink from the fountain of spiritual water (John 4:13, 14;
7:37-39) freely. God’s people, during the time of trouble, will suffer literal thirst
but in the city God will give them literal fresh water from the river of life that
flows from His throne. That is to say, in the present dispensation of the Holy
Spirit the water is spiritual and in the future dispensation the water is literal.
The same is true of the Manna. We can even now partake spiritually of the
Manna (John 6:48-51) but there we will sit around the silver table where Jesus
will serve us literal Manna. Likewise, we can now spiritually partake of the fruit


                                                                         Page 278 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
tree of life (My Life Today, p. 50) but then we will partake of its literal fruit
(Revelation 2:7)
Verses 7 and 8 contrast the character of those inside the city with those who
are outside:
Revelation 21:7
“He who overcomes [this is why the saints are in the city] shall inherit all
things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son.”
“In order to inherit all things, we must resist and overcome sin.” Ellen G. White,
The Great Controversy, p.540
Revelation 21:8 provides a sampling of the sins that barred the wicked from
entering the city.

Revelation 21:8
“But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral,
sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns
with fire and brimstone, which is the second death."

A Fifth Cycle?

We might say that there is a fifth cycle in chapter 21 because John again sees
the city descending from heaven (21:9, 10) and then describes all the beautiful
physical characteristics of the city in verses 9-26 ending in verse 27 with a
contrast between those who are in the book of life inside the city with those
who are outside the city because they defile and cause an abomination and a
lie.

Revelation 21:27

“But there shall by no means enter it anything that defiles, or causes an
abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.”

Revelation 21:14, 15 once again contrasts those inside with those outside:


                                                                         Page 279 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 22:14, 15

‘Blessed are those who do his commandments that they may have the right to the
tree of life and may enter through the gates into the city. But outside are the dogs
and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and whoever
loves and practices a lie.’
The Importance of this Subject

Dispensationalist theologians teach the rapture doctrine because they believe
that the millennium will be a period of peace and prosperity on earth. Their
argument goes something like this:
   1. Jesus promised to come a second time to take His people to heaven.
   2. Jesus also promised that the meek will inherit the earth.
   3. The only way that Jesus can fulfill both promises is if He comes to
      rapture His church to heaven seven years before the millennium and
      then returns with the church seven years later to set up His millennial
      kingdom on earth.

However, there is another way Jesus can fulfill both promises:
   Jesus comes to take His people to heaven for a thousand years.
    At the end of the millennium Jesus returns with His people and the meek
     will inherit the earth.
By teaching that Jesus will set up His kingdom on earth at the second coming,
the apostate churches are leaving themselves wide open to accept the
counterfeit Christ! The Bible teaches that when Christ comes the second time,
He will not touch the earth. But if Christians are expecting Jesus to come back
to earth to set up His millennial kingdom then Satan could walk up and down
the earth, speak many of the things Jesus spoke, perform many of the miracles
Jesus performed and thus deceive those who are expecting Jesus to come in
this way!


                                                                         Page 280 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


         Lesson #17 – Sins of Commission and Omission


According to the Bible, there are two categories of sin. One is the sins that we
commit and the other the responsibilities that we omit. In this lesson we will
see that both kinds of sins will keep us from entering the New Jerusalem. Let’s
read first Matthew 25:31-46 where the sin of omission is described.

Matthew 25:31-46

"When the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him,
then He will sit on the throne of His glory. 32 All the nations will be gathered
before Him, and He will separate them one from another, as a shepherd divides
his sheep from the goats. 33 And He will set the sheep on His right hand, but the
goats on the left. 34 Then the King will say to those on His right hand, 'Come, you
blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world: 35 for I was hungry and you gave Me food; I was thirsty and you
gave Me drink; I was a stranger and you took Me in; 36 I was naked and you
clothed Me; I was sick and you visited Me; I was in prison and you came to Me.' 37
"Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry
and feed You, or thirsty and give You drink? 38 When did we see You a stranger

                                                                         Page 281 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and take You in, or naked and clothe You? 39 Or when did we see You sick, or in
prison, and come to You?' 40 And the King will answer and say to them, 'Assuredly,
I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these My brethren, you
did it to Me.' 41 "Then He will also say to those on the left hand, 'Depart from Me,
you cursed, into the everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels: 42
for I was hungry and you gave Me no food; I was thirsty and you gave Me no
drink; 43 I was a stranger and you did not take Me in, naked and you did not
clothe Me, sick and in prison and you did not visit Me.' 44 "Then they also will
answer Him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry or thirsty or a stranger
or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to You?' 45 Then He will answer
them, saying, 'Assuredly, I say to you, inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the
least of these, you did not do it to Me.' 46 And these will go away into everlasting
punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."

Three Questions About This Passage

    To whom did Jesus address this parable?
    When and where will this judgment take place?
    What will be the standard of the judgment?

To Whom Did Jesus Direct These Words?

Did Jesus direct this parable to believers or to unbelievers?

In Matthew 24 Jesus spoke about the signs of His coming. After describing the
signs, He told four parables on the importance of watching and being ready for
His coming. The content of these parables indicates that Jesus did not speak
these parables to unbelievers but rather to those who profess to believe in Him:

      The good and faithful servant
      The ten virgins
      The talents
      The parable of the sheep and the goats


                                                                         Page 282 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
When Will This Judgment Scene Occur?

When will the separation of the sheep from the goats take place? The passage
provides several clues:

    The Son of Man sits on a great white throne.
    This throne is the throne of His glory. (Now He sits with His Father on
     the throne of grace—Revelation 3:21).
    All nations will gather before the throne so all who have lived in human
     history must have resurrected.
    There is an examination of the evidence.
    After the evidence is examined the verdict is given.
    The sentence is then executed in the lake of fire.
    The lake of fire was prepared for the devil and his angels.

A Similar Passage in Revelation

Now let’s examine a parallel passage in the book of Revelation. Revelation
20:7-9, 11-15 contains the same basic elements as Matthew 25. In The Great
Controversy, p. 322 Ellen White applies the parable to the second coming.
However, she presents a greater fulfillment after the millennium (EW, pp. 53,
54). In both sources we find:

    A great white throne
“Far above the city, upon a foundation of burnished gold, is a throne, high and
lifted up. Upon this throne sits the Son of God, and around Him are the subjects of
His kingdom.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 665:

    The Son of God is sitting on the great white throne (Revelation 20:11)
    All nations are gathered before the throne: All who lived in human
     history have resurrected (Revelation 20:5, 7, 8)
    There is an examination of the evidence (Revelation 20:13)
    After the evidence is examined the verdict is given (GC, p. 666; EW, p. 53)


                                                                         Page 283 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The sentence is then executed in the lake of fire (Revelation 20:10)
    The lake was prepared for the devil and his angels (Revelation 20:10)

What is the Criterion of the Judgment in Revelation?

Even though Matthew and Revelation portray the same judgment scene after
the millennium, their emphasis is different. Matthew focuses on the sin of
omission and Revelation on the sins of commission.

The record in Revelation is clear: Those who are outside the city are there
because they transgressed the Commandments of God:

Revelation 21:7, 8

“He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be
My son. 8 But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually
immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake
which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death."

Revelation 21:27

“But there shall by no means enter it anything that defiles, or causes an
abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.”

Revelation 22:14, 15

“Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to
the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. 15 But outside are
dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and
whoever loves and practices a lie.”

The emphasis in the book of Revelation falls upon the sins that the wicked
committed and did not repent of and forsake.




                                                                         Page 284 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Criterion of the Judgment in Matthew

The criterion of the judgment in Matthew is different yet complimentary.
Whereas Revelation emphasizes the sins of commission, Matthew underlined
the sins of omission.

What do I mean? The emphasis in Revelation falls upon what the wicked did
that they should not have done. The emphasis in Matthew falls upon what the
wicked did not do and should have done.

Ellen White perceptibly wrote:

“The condemning power of the law of God extends, not only to the things we do,
but to the things we do not do. We are not to justify ourselves in omitting to do
the things that God requires. We must not only cease to do evil, but we must
learn to do well. God has given us powers to be exercised in good works; and if
these powers are not put to use, we shall certainly be set down as wicked and
slothful servants. We may not have committed grievous sins; such offenses may
not stand registered against us in the book of God; but the fact that our deeds are
not recorded as pure, good, elevated, and noble, showing that we have not
improved our entrusted talents, places us under condemnation.” Ellen G. White,
Selected Messages, vol. 1, p. 220

Let us look more closely at the judgment scene in Matthew 25

Jesus will place the righteous at His right hand and the goats to His left (DA, p.
644). In the Bible, the right hand is the side of God’s favor. Jesus sits at the right
hand of the Father. At the last supper, Judas was on the left side of Jesus and
John on the right. When the fishermen did not fish anything all night, Jesus told
them to cast the net on the right side of the boat (John 21:6). An archaic meaning
of the word ‘sinister’ is, ‘toward the left-hand side’, when a person gets up in a
bad mood we say that ‘he woke up with his left foot’.




                                                                         Page 285 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
This passage in Matthew 25 reminds us of Isaiah 58:6, 7:

"Is this not the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo
the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? 7
Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, and that you bring to your house the
poor who are cast out; when you see the naked, that you cover him, and not hide
yourself from your own flesh?”

However, the parable of Jesus is not simply telling us that we should be active
in Dorcas work. There is a spiritual dimension to the parable:

      Hungry (the Bible is the food; Matthew 4:4)
      Thirsty (thirsty, the Holy Spirit is the drink; John 7:37-39)
      Stranger (strangers to the covenants, without hope; Ephesians 2:12, 19)
      Naked (destitute of Christ’s righteousness; Isaiah 61:10)
      Sick (with the virus of sin; Isaiah 1:6)
      Prison (prisoners of Satan and sin; Isaiah 61:1, 2)
It is fashionable today for Christians to visit the ‘holy land,’ to walk where Jesus
walked and to experience baptism where John baptized Him. Regarding this,
Ellen White wrote in The Desire of Ages, p. 640:

“Many feel that it would be a great privilege to visit the scenes of Christ's life on
earth, to walk where He trod, to look upon the lake beside which He loved to
teach, and the hills and valleys on which His eyes so often rested. But we need
not go to Nazareth, to Capernaum, or to Bethany, in order to walk in the steps of
Jesus. We shall find His footprints beside the sickbed, in the hovels of poverty, in
the crowded alleys of the great city, and in every place where there are human
hearts in need of consolation. In doing as Jesus did when on earth, we shall walk
in His steps.”

In the parable, the sheep did not care who got the credit. They did not serve
in order to receive accolades and applause, nor in order to be saved, nor for
money. The righteous performed these actions spontaneously and naturally
because they had the love of Jesus in their hearts, a love the flowed into their

                                                                         Page 286 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
hearts and then outward toward others. Are we aware that when we do these
things, we are doing them to Jesus? Do we see the face of Jesus in others?

The goats did not mistreat those in need. Perhaps like the rich man, they even
allowed the hungry and sick to eat the crumbs that fell off their tables. Their
grievous sin was that they ignored them and by doing so, they ignored Jesus.
The story of the two debtors teaches us about how we should treat others.

During His ministry, Jesus spoke words of love and compassion for those in
need. On the other hand, he had strong words of rebuke for those who make a
profession of religion that does not act in favor of others. The words of Jesus to
the goats are unusual. We are not used to hearing Jesus speak in this manner.

The Rich Young Ruler

The story of the rich young ruler is an illustration of those who claim to have
one side of perfection (the don’t do side) but are severely lacking of the other
side. Here is the passage with explanatory notes in brackets:

Matthew 19:16-22

“Now behold, one came and said to Him, "Good Teacher, what good thing shall I
do that I may have eternal life?" 17 So He said to him, "Why do you call Me good?
No one is good but One, that is, God [do you call me good because you believe
that I am God?]. However, if you want to enter into [eternal] life, keep the
commandments [a good SDA answer]. 18 He said to Him, "Which ones?" Jesus
said, "'You shall not murder,' 'You shall not commit adultery,' 'You shall not steal,'
'You shall not bear false witness,' 19 'Honor your father and your mother,' and,
'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'" [Jesus replaced the tenth with this
one because benevolence is the opposite of covetousness] 20 The young man
said to Him, "All these things I have kept from my youth. What do I still lack?
[he knew that something was missing]" 21 Jesus said to him, "If you want to be
perfect [or have eternal life], go, sell what you have and give to the poor, and



                                                                         Page 287 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me." 22 But when the young
man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.”

The problem with the rich young ruler is that, outwardly at least, he abstained
from evil but he did not perform the good. His sin was not one of commission
but rather of omission. God will judge him in the final day for what he did not
do.

The Story of the Good Samaritan

The story of the Good Samaritan is similar in many ways to the story of the rich
young ruler. In the story of the Good Samaritan, a theologian asked Jesus the
same question that the rich young ruler asked Him, ‘what shall I do to inherit
eternal life?’ When Jesus challenged the theologian to answer his own question,
Jesus told him that his answer was correct.

At first sight, Jesus’ answer to the rich young ruler and the theologian’s answer
to his own question are not the same. However, upon closer inspection we shall
see that the answer is identical in both cases. Here is the parable of the Good
Samaritan with explanatory notes in brackets:

Luke 10:25-37

“And behold, a certain lawyer [an expert in the writings of Moses] stood up
and tested Him, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? [The
identical question of the rich young ruler to which we would expect the
same answer]" 26 He said to him, "What is written in the law [the writings of
Moses]? What is your reading of it?" 27 So he answered and said, "‘you shall love
the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength,
and with all your mind,' and 'your neighbor as yourself.'" 28 And He said to him,
“You have answered rightly; do this [not ‘believe this’ but rather ‘do this’]
and you will live [eternal life]." 29 However, he, wanting to justify himself,
[because he was not practicing what he preached] said to Jesus, "And who is
my neighbor [trying to change the subject]?" 30 Then Jesus answered and said:


                                                                         Page 288 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
"A certain man went down [a desolate road] from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell
among thieves [Satan and his angels], who stripped him of his clothing [took
away his righteousness], wounded him [a wounded and hurting humanity],
and departed, leaving him half dead [without outside help he would have
died]. 31 Now by chance a certain priest [symbolizing the religious leaders]
came down that road and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. 32
Likewise a Levite, [symbol of the deacons] when he arrived at the place, came
and looked, and passed by on the other side. 33 However, a certain Samaritan
[a man from a foreign country], as he journeyed, came where he was and when
he saw him, he had compassion. 34 So he went to him and bandaged his wounds,
pouring on oil and wine [two remedial agencies, the blood of Jesus and the
Holy Spirit]; and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn [the
church], and took care of him. 35 On the next day, when he departed [the
ascension of Christ], he took out two denarii [gave resources to the church to
care for the lost], gave them to the innkeeper [the pastors], and said to him,
'Take care of him; and whatever more you spend, when I come again [the
second coming], I will repay [He will bring His reward] you.' 36 So which of
these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among the thieves?" 37 And
he said, "He who showed mercy on him." Then Jesus said to him, "Go and do
likewise."

Matthew 5:38-48

The religion of Jesus does not consist merely of ceasing to do evil but in doing
good. Jesus did not say ‘do not do unto others as you would not have them do
unto you’. He said ‘do unto others as you would have them do unto you.’ True
religion is not merely believing right but rather acting right.

Here is another biblical passage that uses the word ‘perfect’ as in the story of
the rich young ruler and the Good Samaritan:




                                                                         Page 289 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Matthew 5:38-48

"You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.' 39 But
I tell you not to resist an evil person. Rather, whoever slaps you on your right
cheek, turn the other to him also. 40 If anyone wants to sue you and take away
your tunic, let him have your cloak also. 41 And whoever compels you to go one
mile, go with him two. 42 Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to
borrow from you do not turn away. 43 "You have heard that it was said, 'You
shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' 44 But I say to you, love your
enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for
those who spitefully use you and persecute you, 45 that you may be sons of your
Father in heaven; for He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
rain on the just and on the unjust. 46 For if you love those who love you, what
reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? 47 And if you greet
your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax
collectors do so? 48 Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven
is perfect.”

The parallel passage in the gospel of Luke explains that the other side of
perfection is to be merciful:

Luke 6:27-36

“But I say to you who hear: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 28
bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you. 29 To him
who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other also and from him who takes
away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either. 30 Give to everyone who asks
of you. And from him who takes away your goods do not ask them back. 31 And
just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise. 32 "But if you love
those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who
love them. 33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that
to you? For even sinners do the same. 34 And if you lend to those from whom you
hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend to sinners
to receive as much back. 35 But love your enemies, do good, and lend, hoping for

                                                                         Page 290 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
nothing in return; and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the
Most High. For He is kind to the unthankful and evil. 36 Therefore be merciful, just
as your Father also is merciful.”
James 1:27 has both dimensions of perfection:

“Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans
and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.”




                                                                         Page 291 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 292 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


             Lesson #18 – Reflections on Second Death


What is second death? Over the years, this question has engaged both
Seventh-day Adventist and Protestant theologians. Although both groups
believe that second death involves the eternal punishment of sinners, they
disagree in what sense the punishment is eternal.
Both agree that second death involves conscious torment. However, while a
preponderance of Protestant theologians believe that sinners will suffer
conscious torment forever in the flames of hell, Adventist theologians believe
that after a period of conscious torment, sinners will cease to exist. That is to
say, the punishment of lost sinners will be eternal in its results because they
will die and never live again.
Now we must ask a second, yet equally important question. Did Jesus suffer
second death? A strictly ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to this question creates seeming
problems for both Protestants and Seventh-day Adventists.
From a Protestant perspective, a ‘yes’ answer leads one to ask, if Jesus suffered
second death, why is he not presently burning in the fires of hell? Why does He
now enjoy intimate fellowship with the Father in the heaven of heavens?
Furthermore, from an Adventist perspective, if Jesus suffered second death,

                                                                         Page 293 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
why was He not blotted out of existence after drinking the cup of His Father’s
wrath in Gethsemane and dying on the Cross? Obviously incisive questions!
On the other hand, if Jesus did not suffer second death, how can He save us?
Does not God’s justice require second death as the final penalty for our sins?
So, to answer this question ‘yes’ or ‘no’ creates a seemingly unsolvable dilemma
for both Adventists and most Protestants. It is the purpose of this study to
propose a solution to this seeming difficulty.

Vital Questions

The first question we must answer as we seek a solution to this seemingly
unsolvable impasse is this, what is sin? The Bible has a ready answer to the
question:
“Whosoever commits sin transgresses also the law: for sin is the transgression of
the law.” (1 John 3:4)
A second question that we face is this, how many human beings have sinned—
transgressed the law? Once again, the Bible provides a categorical answer:
“There is none righteous, no, not one . . . for all have sinned and fall short of the
glory of God” (Romans 3:10, 23).
A third question comes to the fore. What are the wages of sin? Again, the Bible
provides an unambiguous answer:
“Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through
sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned . . . for the wages of sin is
death.” (Romans 5:12; 6:23)
Ellen White commented on Romans 6:23:
"The wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ
our Lord." Romans 6:23. While life is the inheritance of the righteous, death is
the portion of the wicked. Moses declared to Israel: "I have set before thee this day

                                                                         Page 294 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
life and good, and death and evil." Deuteronomy 30:15.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 544
Still a fourth question stares us in the face. Is the death referred to in Romans
6:23 the first or the second?
Ellen White provides the unequivocal answer:
“The death referred to in these scriptures [Romans 6:23; Deuteronomy 30:15]
is not that pronounced upon Adam, for all mankind suffer the penalty of his
transgression. It is ‘the second death’ that is placed in contrast with everlasting
life.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 544

Two Stages of Second Death

Clearly, the final penalty for sin is second death. So, we must answer the
question, what is second death? As noted before, both Adventists and
Protestants agree that second death involves conscious anguish and suffering,
as sinners are keenly aware of eternal banishment from God’s presence.
However, while most Protestants believe that the lost will suffer eternal,
conscious, alienation from God, Adventists believe that the lost will suffer the
distress and despair of separation from God that will end in a death from which
there is no resurrection. That is to say, for the wicked, the conscious anguish
and agony of separation from God will finally end in “saying goodbye to life
forever.”

The First Stage of Second Death

The third angel’s message in Revelation 14:9-11 describes the punishment of
those who worship the beast and his image. In vivid language, the text describes
the conscious stage of the second death experience:
“Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships
the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, 10
he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full


                                                                         Page 295 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
strength into the cup of His indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and
brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.”
Although the third angel’s message does not specifically refer to the conscious
suffering of the wicked in the fire as second death, Revelation 20:14, 15 does:
“Then Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
And anyone not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire.”
Clearly, the second death experience involves conscious suffering in the fire
before the sinner ceases to exist.

The Second Stage of Second Death

The second stage of second death is the final extinction of life. That is to say, the
end-result of the second death is saying goodbye to life forever, sleeping a
perpetual sleep from which there will be no resurrection. Thus, the prophet
Jeremiah wrote concerning the final destiny of the wicked Babylonians:

“And I will make drunk her princes, and her wise men, her captains, and her rulers,
and her mighty men [Revelation 6:15-17]: and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep,
and not wake, saith the King, whose name is the Lord of hosts.” (Jeremiah 51:57)

The Two Stages Related

For Seventh-day Adventists second death means much more than just the final
and eternal deprivation of physical life. The most agonizing aspect of second
death is the spiritual suffering and agony that immediately precedes it. It
includes the terrible realization of eternal separation from God and a sense of
hopelessness. The first stage of the second death experience transpires while
a person is still alive and facing the prospect of dying and never living again.
We usually think of torment (basanizo) in terms of physical pain and
suffering. The Greek word basanizo can certainly refer to physical pain and
suffering such as the woman who was in labor pains to bring the Messiah into



                                                                         Page 296 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the world (Revelation 12:2). However, this word can also describe profound
psychological and spiritual anguish.
Examples:
    The wicked populace during the French Revolution celebrated the death
     of the two witnesses that had tormented them for 1260 years (Revelation
     11:10).
    The evil spirits suffered torment when they were in the presence of Jesus
     (Matthew 8:29; Mark 5:7; Luke 8:28).
    Lot was tormented by the evil behavior of the Sodomites (2 Peter 2:8).
The spiritual and psychological torment of the lost will by far surpass their
physical suffering. It will be torment to see the one that they have come to
despise and to know that they are eternally lost as the result of their own
choice. They would love to fight against Him but they know that they cannot
prevail.

Jesus Felt the Pangs of Second Death

We cannot even begin to comprehend the depths of the first, conscious, stage
of the second death experience unless we visit the Garden of Gethsemane and
the Cross.
As Jesus was about to bear the sins of the world upon Himself He said, ‘my soul
is sorrowful, even unto death’ (Matthew 26:38). The death that Jesus referred
to here was not physical but deeply spiritual. It was a feeling of alienation from
His Father because of the burden of sin that He was bearing, an agonizing
feeling that He would never again see the face of the One He deeply loved.
During His ministry, Jesus could confidently say, ‘the Father has not left Me
alone, for I always do those things that please Him.’ (John 8:29). However, in
the Garden of Gethsemane his mood changed. As Jesus sweated great drops of
blood (Luke 22:44), three times He begged the Father, that if it were possible,
He remove the cup of His wrath from His trembling hand (John 18:11).


                                                                         Page 297 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Even further, on the cross, with profound angst, Jesus cried out, ‘my God, my
God, why have you forsaken me?’ (Matthew 27:46). Hebrews 5:7 tells us that in
the Garden Jesus ‘offered up prayers and supplications, with vehement cries
and tears to Him who was able to save Him from death’. Once again, the death
referred to here are the pangs of the second death with no anticipation of a
resurrection.
Why did Jesus suffer this intense spiritual agony before His actual physical
death? The answer is in Hebrews 2:9:
“But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering
of death crowned with glory and honor, that He, by the grace of God, might taste
death for everyone.”
Jesus was bearing the sins of the world and it is patently obvious that a person
cannot ‘taste’ death after he is dead! The Exegetical Dictionary of the New
Testament explains that the Greek word ‘taste’ (gueúomai) ‘implies the
moment of suffering’
The gospel prophet Isaiah explained how Jesus felt the pangs of second death
as the Father placed on Him the iniquity of us all:
“Surely He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed Him
stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. However, He was wounded for our
transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement for our peace
was upon Him, and by His stripes we are healed. 6 All we like sheep have gone
astray; we have turned, every one, to his own way; and the Lord has laid on Him
the iniquity of us all.” (Isaiah 53:4-6)
Ellen White amplified these verses in Isaiah:
“Hating sin with a perfect hatred, He yet gathered to His soul the sins of the
whole world. Guiltless, He bore the punishment of the guilty. Innocent, yet
offering Himself as a substitute for the transgressor. The guilt of every sin
pressed its weight upon the divine soul of the world's Redeemer. The evil thoughts,


                                                                         Page 298 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the evil words, the evil deeds of every son and daughter of Adam, called for
retribution upon Himself; for He had become man's substitute. Though the
guilt of sin was not His, His spirit was torn and bruised by the transgressions of
men, and He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made the
righteousness of God in Him.” Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, vol. 1, p. 321

Ellen White was correct when she wrote that the suffering and anguish that
Jesus felt in Gethsemane and on the Cross was similar to what lost sinners will
feel after the close of probation—eternal alienation from God with no hope of a
resurrection:

“Christ felt much as sinners will feel when the vials of God's wrath shall be poured
out upon them. Black despair, like the pall of death, will gather about their
guilty souls, and then they will realize to the fullest extent the sinfulness of sin.
Salvation has been purchased for them by the suffering and death of the Son of
God. It might be theirs, if they would accept of it willingly, gladly; but none are
compelled to yield obedience to the law of God. If they refuse the heavenly benefit
and choose the pleasures and deceitfulness of sin, they have their choice, and at
the end receive their wages, which is [1] the wrath of God and [2] eternal
death. They will be forever separated from the presence of Jesus, whose sacrifice
they had despised. They will have lost a life of happiness and sacrificed eternal
glory for the pleasures of sin for a season.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, vol. 2, p. 210

The reader will notice that that second death involves two stages, the wrath of
God and eternal death. Although there is an intimate link between the two
stages, they are not the identical.

M. L. Andreassen gave an analogy that explains the two stages of second death:
“A man is sentenced to be hanged three weeks from the time the sentence is
pronounced. Those three weeks are a vital part of his punishment. Every day he is
one day nearer the fatal date, and his anxiety and torture daily increase. When
at last the moment arrives, when the trap springs, when the neck is broken, his

                                                                         Page 299 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
sufferings are over. Death is both the climax of, and the release from,
suffering. No evaluation of the sufferings of death is adequate that takes into
account only the moment of death. What goes before must be given due
consideration.” M. L. Andreassen, the Book of Hebrews, p. 112.
Did Jesus bear the full penalty for the transgression of the Law in Gethsemane
and on the Cross or did He suffer only a small portion? Ellen White eloquently
responds:

“Some have limited views of the atonement. They think that Christ suffered
only a small portion of the penalty of the law of God; they suppose that, while the
wrath of God was felt by His dear Son, He had, through all His painful sufferings,
the evidence of His Father's love and acceptance; that the portals of the tomb
before Him were illuminated with bright hope, and that He had the abiding
evidence of His future glory. Here is a great mistake. Christ's keenest anguish
was a sense of His Father's displeasure. His mental agony because of this was of
such intensity that man can have but faint conception of it.” Ellen G. White, God’s
Amazing Grace, p. 171

Ellen White described the alienation from His Father that Jesus felt during the
first stage of the second death:

“Satan with his fierce temptations wrung the heart of Jesus. The Savior could not
see through the portals of the tomb. Hope did not present to Him His coming
forth from the grave a conqueror, or tell Him of the Father's acceptance of the
sacrifice. He feared that sin was so offensive to God that their separation was to
be eternal. Christ felt the anguish that the sinner will feel when mercy shall
no longer plead for the guilty race. It was the sense of sin, bringing the Father's
wrath upon Him as man's substitute that made the cup He drank so bitter, and
broke the heart of the Son of God. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 753

Once again, Ellen White described how Jesus felt in Gethsemane:

“The sins of the world were upon Him, also the sense of His Father's wrath as He
suffered the penalty of the law transgressed. It was these that crushed His

                                                                         Page 300 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
divine soul. . . The separation that sin makes between God and man was fully
realized and keenly felt by the innocent, suffering Man of Calvary. He was
oppressed by the powers of darkness. He had not one ray of light to brighten the
future. . . . It was in this terrible hour of darkness, the face of His Father hidden,
legions of evil angels enshrouding Him, the sins of the world upon Him, that the
words were wrenched from His lips: "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken
me?" . . . Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, p. 171

Notably, the spiritual anguish that Jesus felt during His trial and crucifixion was
so keen that He could hardly feel the physical pain:

“The wrath of God against sin, the terrible manifestation of His displeasure
because of iniquity, filled the soul of His Son with consternation. All His life Christ
had been publishing to a fallen world the good news of the Father's mercy and
pardoning love. Salvation for the chief of sinners was His theme. However now,
with the terrible weight of guilt He bears, He cannot see the Father's
reconciling face. The withdrawal of the divine countenance from the Savior in
this hour of supreme anguish pierced His heart with a sorrow that can never
be fully understood by man. So great was this agony that His physical pain was
hardly felt. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 753

Feelings or Promises?
Clearly, in Gethsemane and on the Cross Jesus keenly felt the pangs of the first
stage of second death and those feelings assured Him that He was saying
goodbye to life forever! In this sense, Jesus felt much like lost sinners when
they realize that their probation has closed and they are lost.
However, there is also a marked difference between Jesus and the lost. Jesus
was personally innocent yet reckoned guilty by His Father for bearing sins
that were not His. He hated sin and loved His Father and He feared that the sins
He was bearing would separate Him forever from the One He loved. Not so, with
the wicked who love sin and hate the Father.



                                                                         Page 301 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
It is true that Jesus could not see beyond the portals of the tomb. It is true that
He did not feel that He would come forth from the tomb a conqueror. It is true
that He felt that the sins that He was bearing were so abhorrent to His Father
that He would never see Him again. Yet, contrary to lost sinners, Jesus did not
lose hope. In His agonizing ordeal, He trusted His Father’s promises and not
His feelings. His Father had promised to call Him from the grave if He remained
faithful. His final parting cry to life reveals that He died in the hope of the
resurrection, when He cried out, ‘Father, into your hands I commend my spirit’.
Hebrews 5:9 tells us that when Jesus cried out in Gethsemane, the Father heard
Him and saved Him from death ‘because of His godly fear’. Obviously, the Father
did not save Him from mere physical death—because He died—but rather from
the end-result of the second death experience, eternal separation from God!
Ellen White explained what sustained Jesus as he drained the last dregs in the
cup of human woe:
“Amid the awful darkness, apparently forsaken of God, Christ had drained the last
dregs in the cup of human woe. In those dreadful hours, He had relied upon the
evidence of His Father's acceptance heretofore given Him. He was acquainted
with the character of His Father; He understood His justice, His mercy, and His
great love. By faith He rested in Him whom it had ever been His joy to obey and
as in submission He committed Himself to God, the sense of the loss of His Father's
favor was withdrawn. By faith, Christ was victor.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of
Ages, p. 756

Did Jesus Suffer Second Death?

The question remains, did Jesus suffer second death? A preponderance of
Adventist and Evangelical scholars would answer this question with a
categorical ‘yes’. However, based on the previous discussion in this article, we
must answer the question with both a ‘yes’ and a ‘no’.




                                                                         Page 302 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In Gethsemane and on the Cross Jesus did experience the pangs of second
death. Although He felt the deep chasm of separation from His Father, He was
willing to obey Him at the risk of saying goodbye to life forever never to see His
Father again. However, though Jesus felt the pangs of the first stage of second
death, the separation from the Father was not eternal because He is presently
in heaven at the right hand of the Father!

Two Complex Problems

The scenario that we have presented above seems to create two problems that
we must now address.
The first problem that we must address is this: If Jesus suffered the pangs of
second death and the end-result of second death is eternal separation from God,
then, why did the Father call Him forth from the grave on the third day? Why
did Jesus not sleep a perpetual sleep but rather is now very much in fellowship
with His Father in heaven? We can summarize the first problem in the following
way:
    The penalty for sin is second death in both its stages, which involves a
     deep sense of conscious anguish followed by eternal separation from
     God, a sleep from which there is no resurrection.
    The Father imputed the guilt for the sins of the world upon Jesus.
    This being the case, logic would tell us that Jesus must have suffered
     both stages of second death for those sins.
    However, if Jesus suffered both stages of second death, why did He
     resurrect from the dead? Why did He not say goodbye to life forever?
     Why is He now in fellowship with the Father?
The second problem we face is this: The Bible clearly teaches that the principles
of God’s character do not allow Him to justify a wicked person nor to condemn
a righteous one:
“He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just, both of them alike are
an abomination to the Lord.” (Proverbs 17:15)

                                                                         Page 303 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
How then could God impute the sins of a guilty world upon innocent Jesus? We
will find, in the course of our study, that the second problem will actually help
us resolve the first.

The Scapegoat Solution

I believe that the scapegoat ceremony in Leviticus 16 solves these two
theological conundrums. The central theme of Leviticus 1-15 is that the
penitent sinner or priest daily placed their sins upon the head of the victim and
then the priest transferred the sins through the victim’s blood to the sanctuary.
This, of course, defiled the sanctuary and made its cleansing necessary.
According to Leviticus 16:20-22, once a year at the end of the year, after the
blood of the Lord’s goat had cleansed the sanctuary, the high priest bore the
sins of the penitent to the entrance of the tent and placed them on the head of
the scapegoat. A fit man then took the goat to a desolate, uninhabited
wilderness and exiled him forever from the camp of the saints. Here is the
biblical record:
"And when he has made an end of atoning for the Holy Place, the tabernacle of
meeting, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat. Aaron shall lay both his hands
on the head of the live goat, confess over it all the iniquities of the children of
Israel, and all their transgressions, concerning all their sins, putting them on
the head of the goat, and shall send it away into the wilderness by the hand of
a suitable man. The goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to an uninhabited
land; and he shall release the goat in the wilderness.”

Who is the Scapegoat?

Some Protestant scholars believe that the two goats that the high priest chose
on the Day of Atonement represent two complementary functions of Jesus.
Other scholars teach that the Lord’s goat represents Christ, and the goat that
the high priest exiled to the uninhabited wilderness represents Satan. I believe
that the second group of scholars is correct for the following reasons:


                                                                         Page 304 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
First, Leviticus 16:7, 8 clearly contrasts the Lord’s goat with the scapegoat—
they are radical opposites:

“He shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the
tabernacle of meeting. Then Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats: one lot for
the Lord and the other lot for the scapegoat.”

Second, the Jewish religious calendar will not allow the scapegoat ceremony
to refer to Jesus. Why not? The sacrifice of the Lord’s goat represents the death
of Jesus on the Cross and that took place in the spring of the year at Passover.

However, the cleansing of the sanctuary by the blood of the Lord’s goat took
place on the Day of Atonement in the fall, at the end of the Hebrew religious
year. There is no evidence that Jesus will bear upon Himself the sins of the
righteous to a non-inhabited wilderness at the end of history. He bore the sins
of the world at the beginning of the Christian dispensation, not at its end.

Third, the literary structure of the book of Revelation clearly reveals that the
scapegoat ceremony will occur when God exiles Satan to a desolate and
uninhabited earth during the millennium. The book of Revelation follows, in
precise order, the geography of the sanctuary:

    Jesus shed His blood on the Cross in the sanctuary court (Revelation 1:5,
     6).
    The churches: Jesus ministers among the seven lamps in the holy place
     (Revelation 2, 3).
    The seals: Jesus ministers at the table of the showbread in the holy place
     (Revelation 4-8:1).
    The trumpets: Jesus ministers at the altar of incense in the holy place
     (Revelation 8:2-11:17).
    Jesus’ most holy place ministry begins (Revelation 11:19).
    Jesus’ most holy place ministry concludes (Revelation 15:5-8).
    The seven last plagues come forth from the ark in the most holy place
     (Revelation 16-18).

                                                                         Page 305 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The second coming of Jesus occurs (Revelation 19:11-21).
    Azazel is sent to a desolate world without inhabitants (Revelation 20).
    Jesus creates a New heavens and new earth (Revelation 21, 22).

Finally, as stated before, not only Adventist but also various non-Adventist
scholars agree that Azazel represents Satan. Here are two examples:
‘. . . the devil himself, the head of the fallen angels, who was afterwards
called Satan; for no subordinate evil spirit could have been placed in antithesis
to Jehovah as Azazel is here, but only the ruler or head of the kingdom of demons.’
(C. F. Keil and F. Delitzsch, Commentary on the Old Testament, bk. 1: The
Pentateuch, ‘The Third Book of Moses,’ 10 bks. [no date], p. 398.)

The Jewish authority, Dr. M. M. Kalisch is categorical:

“There can be no doubt whatever that Azazel is a personal, a superhuman, and
an evil being—in fact a wicked demon. . .. It was approved of by early Christian
writers who identified Azazel with Satan (Origen, C. Cels. VI. 43, p. 305 ed.
Spencer; Iren. Adv. Haer. 1. 12; Epiphan. Haeres XXXIV. 11), and by many later
and modern scholars. (A Historical and Critical Commentary on the Old
Testament, vol. 2, pp. 328, 329).

Is Satan Then Our Savior?

Various Protestant apologists have accused Adventists of teaching that Satan is
their savior because they say that he will suffer the final execution of the
second death sentence for the sins that he has led God’s penitent people to
commit. However, this is not true for several reasons of which we will mention
only three.

First, Leviticus 16:20 makes it abundantly clear that the blood of the Lord’s goat
cleansed the sins of God’s penitent people from the sanctuary before the
scapegoat ceremony took place. The blood of the Lord’s goat cleansed the
sanctuary from sin, not the blood of the scapegoat.


                                                                         Page 306 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
"And when he has made an end of atoning for the Holy Place, the tabernacle of
meeting and the altar, he shall bring the live goat.”

Second, Hebrews 9:22 assures us that ‘without the shedding of blood there is
no remission of sins’. Nowhere does Leviticus 16 tell us that the high priest
offered the scapegoat as a sacrificial victim. The high priest presented the
scapegoat alive before the Lord at the entrance to the tabernacle of meeting
and placed the sins of penitent Israel upon him. The fit man then exiled the
scapegoat alive to a desolate and uninhabited wilderness.

Third, Revelation 20:1-3 indicates that an angel from heaven will bind Satan
and force him to remain alive on a desolate and uninhabited planet for one-
thousand years at the end of the Christian dispensation. In contrast, Jesus
offered his life as a voluntary sacrifice, not at the end, but at the beginning of
the Christian dispensation.

If the scapegoat represents Satan and Jesus will place upon him the sins that
His blood has already cleansed from the sanctuary, then Satan must have
something to do with the final execution of the second death sentence.

Clearly, at the conclusion of the antitypical Day of Atonement, Christ will roll
over upon Satan the sins of the saved that He has cleansed from the sanctuary
through His blood. Satan will then suffer both stages of second death.

As the millennium begins, ‘the event takes place foreshadowed in the last
solemn service of the Day of Atonement’ (The Great Controversy, p. 657). Christ
will transfer to Satan all the sins that He cleansed from the sanctuary and Satan
will begin to suffer the pangs of the first stage of second death. ‘During this time
his [Satan’s] sufferings are intense.” (The Great Controversy, p. 660).
Obviously, the sufferings that Ellen White describes are not physical but rather
intensely psychological. God will compel Satan to remain on a ruined planet for
a thousand years ‘to look forward with trembling and terror to the dreadful
future when he must suffer for all the evil that he has done and be punished for
the sins that he has caused to be committed’ (The Great Controversy, p. 660).

                                                                         Page 307 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
After the millennium, Satan’s agony will intensify in the fire until he finally
suffers the final stage of second death when God will blot him out of existence,
never to live again! As the originator, instigator and perpetuator of sin he will
suffer the final penalty for his own sins and for the sins that he has led God’s
people to commit and God will execute the final penalty upon him in the fire:

"Then He will also say to those on the left hand, 'Depart from Me, you cursed, into
the everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels.” (Matthew 25:41)

Ezekiel 28:18, 19 vividly describes the final stage of second death that Satan
will suffer not only for his own sins but also for those he has led God’s faithful
people to commit—God will reduce him to ashes and he will cease to exist
forever:

"You defiled your sanctuaries by the multitude of your iniquities, by the iniquity
of your trading; therefore, I brought fire from your midst; it devoured you, and I
turned you to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all who saw you. 19 All who
knew you among the peoples are astonished at you; you have become a horror,
and shall be no more forever."'"

The Wicked Will Suffer Second Death

However, Satan will not suffer second death for the sins of the wicked; they will
suffer their own second death. Those who have joined Satan in rebellion against
God and have willfully refused to receive the atonement that Jesus provided will
suffer their own second death in the lake of fire along with Satan and his angels:

“But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral,
sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with
fire and brimstone, which is the second death." (Revelation 21:8)

Ellen White wrote, “the full penalty of the law will be executed upon the
transgressor if he does not receive Christ as his atoning sacrifice and personal
Savior.” (Bible Echo, August 4, 1902).


                                                                         Page 308 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
It is significant that the book of Revelation describes impenitent sinners after
the millennium as surrounding ‘the camp of the saints’ (Revelation 20:9)
intending to attack the holy city.

When the lost are prepared for the onslaught, God will show the entire universe
above the city in panoramic view, the contrast between the character of Christ
and the character of Satan (Revelation 20:13; The Great Controversy, pp. 666-
671). The wicked will then fully understand the issues in the great controversy.
They will understand that Satan, not Christ, is guilty for the existence of sin.
They will suffer intense anguish, fully aware that they have forfeited the right
to eternal life by their own choice, and ‘the sentence of eternal death is
pronounced against them’ (The Great Controversy, p. 668). They are conscious
that they will suffer the final execution of second death from which there is no
resurrection, eternal banishment from the presence of God.

When all the facts of the great controversy come into view, every knee will bow
and every tongue confess that God’s decisions are loving and just:

“With all the facts of the great controversy in view, the whole universe, both loyal
and rebellious, with one accord declare: "Just and true are Thy ways, Thou King
of saints." Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 671

Fire will then descend from heaven and the lost will suffer for a period the
intense agony of separation from God that ends in saying goodbye to life
forever, a death from which there will be no resurrection. During this period of
conscious suffering, their spiritual anguish will by far surpass their physical
pain.

The punishment of Satan, his angels, and the lost will vary in length and
intensity because in strict justice, God will execute the sentence according to
their degree of guilt. In earthly tribunals, sentences vary according to the crime
committed. Some convicts receive a fine, others spend time in prison for a few
years and still others receive several consecutive life sentences. Even so, Satan
will not only suffer for all the sins that he committed but also for all the sins of

                                                                         Page 309 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the righteous, that Jesus placed on him. The intensity and length of his anguish
will far outlast that of his angels and wicked followers (see the Ellen White
passages below).

Outside the Camp

Notably, the book of Revelation describes the lost who will suffer second death
as being outside the camp of the saints! What does it mean to be ‘outside the
camp’?

In Old Testament times, a person who sinned against the Lord ‘with a high hand’
suffered punishment outside the camp:

“And the Israelite woman's son blasphemed the name of the Lord and cursed; and
so they brought him to Moses. . . and the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, "Take
outside the camp him who has cursed; then let all who heard him lay their
hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him.” (Leviticus 24:14, 23)

Likewise, God cut off from the congregation and destroyed the Israelites who
did not afflict their souls on the Day of Atonement:

“For any person who is not afflicted in soul on that same day shall be cut off from
his people. And any person who does any work on that same day, that person I
will destroy from among his people.” Leviticus 23:29, 30

What does the expression ‘cut off’ mean? It means two things. First, it means
exclusion from God’s covenant people, and second, it refers to blotting out their
names from the book of life never more to be remembered. Psalm 109 describes
in advance the destiny of the betrayer, Judas:

“Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord, and let not the sin
of his mother be blotted out. Let them be continually before the Lord that He may
cut off the memory of them from the earth.” (Psalm 109:14, 15)




                                                                         Page 310 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The enemies of Jeremiah plotted to ‘cut him off’ from the land of the living that
‘his name may be remembered no more’:

“But I was like a docile lamb brought to the slaughter; and I did not know that
they had devised schemes against me, saying, "Let us destroy the tree with its fruit,
and let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be
remembered no more." (Jeremiah 11:19)

Concerning the destiny of the wicked, the prophet Isaiah wrote:

“They are dead, they will not live; they are deceased, they will not rise. Therefore
You have punished and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish.”
(Isaiah 26:14)

Thus, the wicked will not only feel the agonizing pangs of what it means to be
eternally separated from God but their names will also be blotted out from the
book of life never more to be remembered, severed forever from the camp of
the saints.

Solution to the Two Problems

Now we return to the two perplexing problems that we mentioned before. First,
if Jesus suffered second death in Gethsemane and on the Cross and the end-
result of second death is eternal separation from God, why is He presently in
fellowship with the Father in the heaven of heavens? Second, how could the
Father punish Jesus who was innocent, for the sins of the guilty? Does not God’s
character forbid Him from punishing the innocent?

When the antitypical Day of Atonement ends, God will finally solve these two
seeming problems. First, the sentence of second death be will be executed upon
those who are truly guilty—Satan, his angels and the wicked—while Jesus and
the righteous will be exonerated. Second, Jesus, having rolled over the final
penalty for the sins of the righteous upon Satan, he will suffer the final
execution of the second death sentence, eternal banishment from the presence
of God and a death from which he will never resurrect.

                                                                         Page 311 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The following chart illustrates the flow of the sins of penitent sinners before
and at the close of probation:

Before Probation’s Close:

Penitent Sinner            Victim            High Priest             Sanctuary Defiled

At Probation’s Close:

Scapegoat             High Priest              Sanctuary Cleansed by Victim’s Blood

Ellen White on the Scapegoat Ceremony

Ellen White has some very interesting things to say about the scapegoat
ceremony. In the chapter “The Earth Desolated”, (Early Writings, pp. 290, 291)
we find the following incisive remarks (the texts in brackets I have added to
provide the biblical foundation for her commentary). During the millennium,
Jesus together with God’s people, will examine the cases of Satan, his angels and
the lost and pronounce sentence according to their works:
“Then I saw thrones, and Jesus and the redeemed saints sat upon them
[Revelation 20:4]; and the saints reigned as kings and priests unto God
[Revelation 20:4]. Christ, in union with His people, judged the wicked dead,
comparing their acts with the statute book, the Word of God, and deciding every
case according to the deeds done in the body [Revelation 20:11, 12; 1
Corinthians 6:1, 2]. Then they meted out to the wicked the portion which they
must suffer, according to their works [I Corinthians 6:2; Revelation 20:11,
12] and it was written against their names in the book of death. Satan also and
his angels were judged by Jesus and the saints [1 Corinthians 6:3]. Satan's
punishment was to be far greater than that of those whom he had deceived
[Leviticus 16:20-22: in terms of length and intensity because he suffers the
final penalty for his own sins and those of God’s people]. His suffering would
so far exceed theirs as to bear no comparison with it [Revelation 20:9]. After
all those whom he had deceived had perished, Satan was still to live and suffer
on much longer.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 290

                                                                         Page 312 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
In the chapter titled “The Second Death” (Early Writings, pp. 293-295), Ellen
White added some significant information about what will transpire at the end
of the millennium:
“[After the millennium] Satan rushes into the midst of his followers and tries to
stir up the multitude to action, but fire from God out of heaven is rained upon
them, and the great men, and mighty men, the noble, the poor and miserable, are
all consumed together. I saw that some were quickly destroyed, while others
suffered longer. They were punished according to the deeds done in the body.
Some were many days consuming, and just as long as there was a portion of them
unconsumed, all the sense of suffering remained. Said the angel, "The worm of
life shall not die; their fire shall not be quenched as long as there is the least
particle for it to prey upon."
Satan and his angels suffered long. Satan bore not only the weight and
punishment of his own sins, but also of the sins of the redeemed host, which
had been placed upon him; and he must suffer for the ruin of souls that he had
caused. Then I saw that Satan and all the wicked host were consumed, and the
justice of God was satisfied; and all the angelic host, and all the redeemed saints,
with a loud voice said, "Amen!" Said the angel, "Satan is the root, his children are
the branches. They are now consumed root and branch. They have died an
everlasting death. They are never to have a resurrection, and God will have a
clean universe." Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 293-295

Some Adventist scholars have claimed that Ellen White’s comments in Early
Writings are a reflection of the ‘early’ Ellen White and that later in The Great
Controversy she softened her description of the punishment of Satan and the
wicked. However, is this really so? In The Great Controversy (written by the so
called ‘late’ Ellen White) she described the three stages of Christ’s work as
sacrifice (on the cross), intercessor (in the heavenly sanctuary) and
eradicator of sin (the scapegoat ceremony):




                                                                         Page 313 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“It was seen [by the pioneers], also, that while the [1] sin offering pointed to
Christ as a sacrifice, and [2] the high priest represented Christ as a mediator,
[3] the scapegoat typified Satan, the author of sin, upon whom the sins of the
truly penitent will finally be placed. When the high priest, by virtue of the blood
of the sin offering, removed the sins from the sanctuary, he placed them upon the
scapegoat. When Christ, by virtue of His own blood, removes the sins of His people
from the heavenly sanctuary at the close of His ministration, He will place them
upon Satan, who, in the execution of the judgment, must bear the final penalty.
The scapegoat was sent away into a land not inhabited, never to come again
into the congregation of Israel. So will Satan be forever banished from the
presence of God and His people, and he will be blotted from existence in the final
destruction of sin and sinners.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 422

Here are two further quotations from The Great Controversy:
“They who have been "accounted worthy" of the resurrection of life are "blessed
and holy." "On such the second death hath no power." Revelation 20:6. However,
those who have not, through repentance and faith, secured pardon, must receive
the penalty of transgression--"the wages of sin." They suffer punishment
varying in duration and intensity, "according to their works," but finally
ending in the second death. Since it is impossible for God, consistently with His
justice and mercy, to save the sinner in his sins, He deprives him of the existence
that his transgressions have forfeited and of which he has proved himself
unworthy. Says an inspired writer: "Yet a little while, and the wicked shall not
be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be." And another
declares: "They shall be as though they had not been." Psalm 37:10; Obadiah
16. Covered with infamy, they sink into hopeless, eternal oblivion.” Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, pp. 544, 545

“The sins of the righteous having been transferred to Satan, he is made to suffer
not only for his own rebellion, but for all the sins which he has caused God's
people to commit. His punishment is to be far greater than that of those whom
he has deceived. After all have perished who fell by his deceptions, he is still to live
and suffer on. In the cleansing flames the wicked are at last destroyed, root and

                                                                         Page 314 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
branch--Satan the root, his followers the branches. The full penalty of the law
has been visited; the demands of justice have been met; and heaven and earth,
beholding, declare the righteousness of Jehovah.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 673

Someone might ask how a God of love can punish lost sinners in the fire when
He could have relieved their suffering. Here is the answer:
“The plea may be made that a loving Father would not see His children suffering
the punishment of God by fire while He had the power to relieve them. However,
God would, for the good of His subjects and for their safety, punish the
transgressor. God does not work on the plan of man. He can do infinite justice
that man has no right to do before his fellow man. Noah would have displeased
God to have drowned one of the scoffers and mockers that harassed him, but God
drowned the vast world. Lot would have had no right to inflict punishment on his
sons-in-law, but God would do it in strict justice”. Ellen G. White, Last Day Events,
p. 241
However, the good news is that God’s people, who have overcome through the
blood of the blood of the Lamb, will not be subject to the second death. Jesus,
having experienced and intensely felt the pangs of second death for their sins,
will roll over the final penalty upon the one who ultimately responsible for
them and infinite justice will have been served:

"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who
overcomes, shall not be hurt by the second death.” (Revelation 2:11)
“Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over such the second
death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign
with Him a thousand years. . .” (Revelation 20:6)

“The great controversy is ended. Sin and sinners are no more. The entire universe
is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From
Him who created all, flow life and light and gladness, throughout the realms of


                                                                         Page 315 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
illimitable space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things,
animate and inanimate, in their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy, declare that
God is love.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 678




                                                                         Page 316 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr




Lesson #19 – Revelation 21:9-22:21: Like a Bride Adorned for
                                  Her Husband

Some ‘sophisticated’ twenty-first century minds have considered the language
of Revelation 21,22 as symbolic like most of the rest of Revelation. They say,
‘come on, do you really believe that there is a city in the sky that has pearly
gates, a golden street, foundations of precious stones, a literal tree of life with
literal water flowing from a literal throne? Childlike faith answers yes! Ellen
White had such faith:
“A fear of making the future inheritance seem too material has led many to
spiritualize away the very truths which lead us to look upon it as our home.
Christ assured His disciples that He went to prepare mansions for them in the
Father's house. Those who accept the teachings of God's word will not be wholly
ignorant concerning the heavenly abode. And yet, ‘eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath
prepared for them that love Him. 1 Corinthians 2:9. Human language is
inadequate to describe the reward of the righteous. It will be known only to those
who behold it. No finite mind can comprehend the glory of the Paradise of God.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 674, 675


                                                                         Page 317 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“Heaven is not a vapor. It is a place. Christ has gone to prepare mansions for
those who love Him, those who, in obedience to His commands, come out from the
world, and are separate. The principles of heaven must be brought into our
experience, that we may be distinguished from the world. There must be a marked
contrast between us and the world; for we are God's denominated people.” Ellen
G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 4, p. 60

In fact, the description of the city in the last two chapters of Revelation is but a
dim representation, in human language, of what the city is really like! It is so
much more glorious than the sinful human mind can even begin to conceive:
“Language is altogether too feeble to attempt a description of heaven. As the
scene rises before me, I am lost in amazement. Carried away with the
surpassing splendor and excellent glory, I lay down the pen, and exclaim, "Oh,
what love! what wondrous love!" The most exalted language fails to describe
the glory of heaven or the matchless depths of a Savior's love.” Ellen G. White,
Early Writings, p. 289

On what basis can we say that Jerusalem today is spiritual and worldwide
whereas the heavenly New Jerusalem is literal and local? Let us illustrate the
principle that answers this question.
In Eden, the literal and spiritual were together. The spiritual robe of
righteousness that covered Adam and Eve internally was made visible by a
literal robe of light that was visible. When Adam and Eve sinned, they first lost
their invisible spiritual robe of righteousness and then the literal robe of light
left them. The purpose of the plan of salvation is to restore both robes. Jesus
covers us first with the spiritual robe of His righteousness when we receive Him
as Savior. Then, when He returns He will cover us with the literal robe of light.
Thus, in the kingdom come, the spiritual and the literal will meet once more!
When we accept Jesus as Savior we become citizens of the New Jerusalem and
our name is written in heaven (Hebrews 12:22-24). Even though we live
physically on this earth, we are strangers and pilgrims, seeking our homeland

                                                                         Page 318 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
because our citizenship is in heaven from where we expect Jesus to come
(Hebrews 11:8-10, 13-16; Philippians 3:20, 21). This earth is a ‘foreign country’
to which we do not long to return. In fact, on earth we have no permanent city
(Hebrews 13:14). We long for a city that has foundations whose builder and
maker is God.
Hebrews 11:16
“But now they desire a better, that is, a heavenly country. Therefore, God is not
ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.”
The apostle Paul put it aptly when he wrote that the Jerusalem above is the
mother of all who are free (Galatians 4:25, 26). We no longer worship in literal
Jerusalem but rather we worship all over the world in spirit and in truth where
two or three are gathered together in Christ’s name (John 4:20-24; Matthew
18:20).
In a certain sense we are there, although we are physically here. We can even
now drink the spiritual waters of the heavenly Jerusalem (John 4:13, 14; 7:37-
39; 1Corinthians 10:3, 4); we can here and now partake spiritually of the fruit
from the tree of life (Heaven, p. 72) We can now be nourished by spiritual
Manna (John 6:48-51; 1 Corinthians 10:3, 4). However, when Jesus comes, we
will be physically in the New Jerusalem, feed physically on Manna, drink literal
H2O, and partake physically of the tree of life. That is to say, the spiritual and
the literal will meet there!
Ellen White provides a vivid description of the heavenly city that she saw in
vision in Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 674-678.

“With Jesus at our head we all descended from the City down to this earth, on a
great and mighty mountain, which could not bear Jesus up, and it parted asunder,
and there was a mighty plain. Then we looked up and saw the great City, with
twelve foundations, twelve gates, three on each side, and an angel at each gate.
We all cried out, "The City, the great City, it's coming! it's coming down from God


                                                                         Page 319 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
out of heaven!" And it came and settled on the place where we stood. Then we
began to look at the glorious things outside of the City. There I saw most
beautiful houses, that had the appearance of silver, supported by four pillars set
with pearls, most glorious to behold, which were to be inhabited by the saints, and
in them was a golden shelf. I saw many of the saints go into the houses, take off
their glittering crowns and lay them on the shelf, then go out into the field by the
houses to do something with the earth; not as we have to do with the earth here.
A glorious light shone all about their heads, and they were continually offering
praises to God.
And I saw another field full of all kinds of flowers, and as I plucked them I cried
out, ‘they will never fade’. Next I saw a field of tall grass most glorious to behold;
it was living green, and had a reflection of silver and gold, as it waved to the glory
of King Jesus. Then we entered a field full of all kinds of beasts--the lion, the lamb,
the leopard and the wolf, all together in perfect union. We passed through the
midst of them, and they followed on peaceably after. Then we entered a wood, not
like the dark woods we have here; but light and beautiful. The branches of the
trees waved to and fro, and we all cried out, "We will dwell safely in the wilderness
and sleep in the woods." We passed through the woods, for we were on our way to
Mount Zion. As we were traveling along, we met a company who were also gazing
at the glories of the place. I noticed red as a border on their garments; their
crowns were brilliant; their robes were pure white. As we greeted them I asked
Jesus who they were. He said they were martyrs that had been slain for him. With
them was an innumerable company of little ones; they had a hem of red on their
garments also. Mount Zion was just before us, and on the mount was a building
which looked to me like a temple, and about it were seven other mountains, on
which grew roses and lilies. And I saw the little ones climb, or if they chose, use
their little wings and fly to the top of the mountains, and pluck the never-fading
flowers. There were all kinds of trees to beautify the place; the box, the pine, the
fir, the oil, the myrtle, the pomegranate, and the fig-tree, bowed down with the
weight of its timely figs, that made the place all over glorious. And as we were



                                                                         Page 320 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
about to enter the temple, Jesus raised his lovely voice and said, ‘Only the
144,000 enter this place’, and we shouted Alleluia.
The temple was supported by seven pillars, all of transparent gold, set with pearls
most glorious. The things I saw there I cannot describe. O that I could talk in the
language of Canaan, then could I tell a little of the glory of the better world. I
saw there, tables of stone in which the names of 144,000 were engraved in letters
of gold. After we beheld the glory of the temple, we went out, and Jesus left us,
and went to the City. Soon we heard his lovely voice again, saying, "Come, my
people, you have come out of great tribulation, and done my will; suffered for me;
come in to supper; for I will gird myself and serve you." We shouted Alleluia,
glory, and entered into the City. And I saw a table of pure silver, it was many
miles in length, yet our eyes could extend over it. I saw the fruit of the tree of life,
the manna, almonds, figs, pomegranates, grapes, and many other kinds of fruit. I
asked Jesus to let me eat of the fruit. He said, ‘Not now. Those who eat of the fruit
of this land, go back to earth no more. But in a little while, if faithful, you shall
both eat of the fruit of the tree of life, and drink of the water of the fountain’. And
he said, ‘You must go back to earth again, and relate to others what I have
revealed to you.’ Then an angel bore me gently down to this dark world.” Ellen G.
White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 2, pp. 52-55

The Light of the City (Revelation 21:9, 10)

“Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the seven last
plagues came to me and talked with me, saying, "Come, I will show you the bride,
the Lamb's wife.” 10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high
mountain, and showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of
heaven from God, 11 having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious
stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal.”
The angel who comes back to John is most likely the sixth angel who announced
the fall of the great city, Babylon (Revelation 16:19). In contrast to the great city
Babylon he will now show John the great city, the New Jerusalem. Babylon is


                                                                         Page 321 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
composed of the beast’s followers and the New Jerusalem is composed of
Christ’s followers:
“The heavenly city is Christ's Bride, not on account of what makes it a city, but on
account of the sanctified and glorified ones who inhabit it. Without the saints,
whose home and residence it is, it would not be the Lamb's Wife; and yet it is the
Lamb's Wife in a sense which does not exclude the foundations, walls, gates,
streets and constructions which contribute to make it a city. Mere edifices and
avenues do not make a city; neither does a mere congregation or multitude of
people make a city. You cannot have a living city without people to inhabit it;
and you cannot have a city without the edifices and avenues arranged in some
fixed shape for the accommodation of those who make up its population. It is the
two together, and the order in which the parts are severally disposed, the
animate with the inanimate, which constitute a city. And while this holy Jerusalem
is the Bride and Wife of Christ with reference to its holy occupants, it is still those
occupants as disposed and arranged in that city. So that the city as a city, as well
as its people as a people, even the whole taken together, is embraced in what the
angel calls ‘the Bride, the Lamb's Wife,’ as she finally appears in her eternal form
and completeness.” J. A. Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition of the Book of
Revelation, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006 by Biblesoft

The Wall of the City (Revelation 21:12-14)

“Also she had a great and high wall with twelve gates, and twelve angels at the
gates, and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of
the children of Israel: 13 three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three
gates on the south, and three gates on the west. 14 Now the wall of the city had
twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the
Lamb.”
The city is composed of Old and New Testament believers. We know this
because the gates have the names of the twelve tribes and the foundations of
the wall have the names of the twelve apostles. Ellen White wrote:


                                                                         Page 322 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“As in the Old Testament the twelve patriarchs stood as representatives of Israel,
so the twelve apostles stand as representatives of the gospel church.” Ellen G.
White, Acts of the Apostles, p. 19

The Materials of the Walls, Gates and Street (Revelation 21:18-21)

“The construction of its wall was of jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear
glass. 19 The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with all kinds of
precious stones: the first foundation was jasper [red], the second sapphire
[blue], the third chalcedony [translucent grayish white], the fourth emerald
[green], 20 the fifth sardonyx [reddish brown], the sixth sardius [red], the
seventh chrysolite [young grass green], the eighth beryl [transparent], the
ninth topaz [can be orange, brown or pink], the tenth chrysoprase [apple
green], the eleventh jacinth [orange], and the twelfth amethyst [reddish
purple]. 21 The twelve gates were twelve pearls: each individual gate was of
one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.”

The Size of the City (Revelation 21:15-17)

The city is arranged as a perfect cube:
“And he who talked with me had a gold reed to measure the city, its gates, and
its wall. 16 The city is laid out as a square; its length is as great as its breadth.
And he measured the city with the reed: twelve thousand furlongs. Its length,
breadth, and height are equal. 17 Then he measured its wall: one hundred and
forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.”
“Thus, this city is a solid cube of golden constructions, 1,500 miles every way. The
base of it would stretch from furthest Maine to furthest Florida, and from the
shore of the Atlantic to Colorado. It would cover all Britain, Ireland, France, Spain,
Italy, Germany, Austria, Prussia, European Turkey, and half of European Russia,
taken together! J. A. Seiss, The Apocalypse: Exposition of the Book of Revelation,
Electronic Database. Copyright © 1998, 2003, 2006 by Biblesoft)



                                                                         Page 323 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Glory of the City (21:22-27)

“But I saw no temple in it [in the city], for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb
are its temple. 23 The city had no need of the sun or of the moon to shine in it, for
the glory of God illuminated it. The Lamb is its light. 24 And the nations of those
who are saved shall walk in its light, and the kings of the earth [the redeemed
at this points are kings] bring their glory and honor into it. 25 Its gates shall
not be shut [at this point those who enter do not have to present ID—EW, p.
39] at all by day (there shall be no night there). 26 And they shall bring the glory
and the honor of the nations into it. 27 But there shall by no means enter it
anything that defiles, or causes an abomination or a lie, but only those who are
written in the Lamb's Book of Life.”
The sun and the moon will exist when God makes all things new because there
will be months (Revelation 22:2) and days (Isaiah 66:22, 23). However, the city
has no need for them because the glory of God eclipses them. In metaphorical
language the prophet Isaiah described the light of the sun and moon:
Isaiah 24:23
“Then the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed; for the Lord of hosts
will reign On Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before His elders, gloriously.”
Although there is no physical temple within the city because the temple
symbolizes Jesus, there is a literal temple on Mt. Zion outside the city and only
the 144,000 can enter there:
“Mount Zion was just before us, and on the mount was a glorious temple, and
about it were seven other mountains, on which grew roses and lilies. And I saw
the little ones climb, or, if they chose, use their little wings and fly, to the top of the
mountains and pluck the never-fading flowers. There were all kinds of trees
around the temple to beautify the place: the box, the pine, the fir, the oil, the
myrtle, the pomegranate, and the fig tree bowed down with the weight of its
timely figs—these made the place all over glorious. And as we were about to



                                                                         Page 324 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
enter the holy temple, Jesus raised His lovely voice and said, ‘Only the 144,000
enter this place,’ and we shouted, ‘Alleluia.’” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 18

Ellen White described the temple:
“This temple was supported by seven pillars, all of transparent gold, set with
pearls most glorious. The wonderful things I there saw I cannot describe. Oh, that
I could talk in the language of Canaan, then could I tell a little of the glory of the
better world. I saw there, tables of stone in which the names of the 144,000 were
engraved in letters of gold.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 19

The River of Life (Revelation 22:1)

“And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding
from the throne of God and of the Lamb.”
There will be no Flynt, Michigan, water there. No water bottles, or refrigerator
filters will liter the heavenly street. The water will be crystal clear like that that
comes from the Sierra Nevada. I suspect that in this world we do not really
know what real sweet water tastes like!

The Tree of Life (Revelation 22:2)

“In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river, was the tree of life,
which bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of
the tree were for the healing of the nations.”
“I then saw Jesus leading His people to the tree of life, and again we heard His
lovely voice, richer than any music that ever fell on mortal ear, saying, ‘The leaves
of this tree are for the healing of the nations. Eat ye all of it.’ Upon the tree of life
was most beautiful fruit, of which the saints could partake freely. In the city was
a most glorious throne, from which proceeded a pure river of water of life, clear
as crystal. On each side of this river was the tree of life, and on the banks of the
river were other beautiful trees bearing fruit which was good for food.” Ellen G.
White, Early Writings, p. 289

                                                                         Page 325 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“Here we saw the tree of life and the throne of God. Out of the throne came a pure
river of water, and on either side of the river was the tree of life. On one side of
the river was a trunk of a tree, and a trunk on the other side of the river, both of
pure, transparent gold. At first I thought I saw two trees. I looked again, and saw
that they were united at the top in one tree. So it was the tree of life on either
side of the river of life. Its branches bowed to the place where we stood, and the
fruit was glorious; it looked like gold mixed with silver.” Ellen G. White, Early
Writings, p. 17

For additional information on the tree of life, see the two chapters in these
study notes titled, ‘The Right to the Tree of Life’ and ‘The Therapeutic Tree of
Life’.

No Curse and No Night (22:3-5)

“And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall
be in it, and His servants shall serve Him. 4 They shall see His face, and His name
shall be on their foreheads. 5 There shall be no night there: They need no lamp
nor light of the sun, for the Lord God gives them light and they shall reign forever
and ever.”

The Epilog (Revelation 22:6-13)

“Then he said to me, "These words are faithful and true." And the Lord God of the
holy prophets sent His angel to show His servants the things which must shortly
take place. 7 "Behold, I am coming quickly! Blessed is he who keeps the words of
the prophecy of this book." (8 Now I, John, saw and heard these things. And when
I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who showed
me these things. 9 Then he said to me, "See that you do not do that. For I am your
fellow servant, and of your brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the
words of this book. Worship God.") 10 And he said to me, [1: Revelation is open
and can be understood] "Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for
[2] the time is at hand [2: the close of probation]. 11 He who is unjust, let him


                                                                         Page 326 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
be unjust still; he who is filthy, let him be filthy still; he who is righteous, let him
be righteous still; he who is holy, let him be holy still." 12 "And behold, [3: the
second coming] I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, to give to every
one according to his work. 13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and
the End, the First and the Last."
The three stages of Revelation 22:10-12:
    ‘Do not seal’: The book of Revelation is open for people to understand and
     embrace its message.
    ‘The time I at hand’: The close of probation.
    ‘Behold I come quickly’: The second coming

“Jesus has left us word: "Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the Master of
the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the
morning: lest coming suddenly He find you sleeping. And what I say unto you I say
unto all, Watch." We are waiting and watching for the return of the Master, who
is to bring the morning, lest coming suddenly He find us sleeping. What time is
here referred to? Not to the revelation of Christ in the clouds of heaven to find a
people asleep. No; but to His return from His ministration in the most holy place
of the heavenly sanctuary, when He lays off His priestly attire and clothes Himself
with garments of vengeance, and when the mandate goes forth: "He that is unjust,
let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is
righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy, let him be holy still." Ellen
G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, pp. 190, 191

Verses 8 and 9 must be placed in parentheses because they break the flow of
thought. It is quite common for John to make parenthetical statements in
Revelation (10:7; 11:18; 15:1; 16:15; 18:1-4; 20:5, last sentence). Ellen White
describes the John’s encounter with the angel:
“The angel then showed John the heavenly city with all its splendor and dazzling
glory, and he, enraptured and overwhelmed, and forgetful of the former reproof
of the angel, again fell to worship at his feet. Again the gentle reproof was given,

                                                                         Page 327 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
‘See thou do it not for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets,
and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.’” Ellen G. White,
Early Writings, p. 230

Jesus Testifies to the Churches (Revelation 22:14-17)

“Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to
the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. 15 But outside
are dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and
whoever loves and practices a lie. 16 "I, Jesus, have sent My angel to testify to you
these things. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the Bright and Morning
Star." 17 And the Spirit and the bride say, "Come!" And let him who hears say,
"Come!" And let him who thirsts come. Whoever desires, let him take the water of
life freely.”

A Warning (Revelation 22:18-21)

“For I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If
anyone adds to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in
this book; 19 and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part from the Book of Life, from the holy city,
and from the things which are written in this book. 20 He who testifies to these
things says, "Surely I am coming quickly." Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus! 21
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.”




                                                                         Page 328 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


               Lesson #20 – Keep the Commandments
                            or Wash their Robes?


Two Translations

The correct reading of Revelation 22:14 has been a topic of discussion among
students of the book of Revelation. There is a significant manuscript difference
between the Textus Receptus and the Western text and the manuscripts that the
translator uses determine the translation. Here are the two translations:

Revelation 22:14-15, KJV (Textus Receptus)

“Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the
tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city. 15 For without are
dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and
whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.”

Revelation 22:14-15, NIV (Sinaiticus and Vaticanus)

"Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right to the tree
of life and may go through the gates into the city.”


                                                                         Page 329 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Similar Wording

Both textual recensions are similar in Greek:

    tás entolás autón = ‘do his commandments’
    tás stolás autón = ‘wash their robes’

Doctrine Not On One Text

It is highly probable that a copyist, perhaps working without due care,
substituted one or the other of these readings in place of the original. However,
the question is, what was the original reading that John wrote in the book of
Revelation? Ellen White wrote:

“Some look to us gravely and say, "Don't you think there might have been some
mistake in the copyist or in the translators?" This is all probable, and the mind
that is so narrow that it will hesitate and stumble over this possibility or
probability would be just as ready to stumble over the mysteries of the Inspired
Word, because their feeble minds cannot see through the purposes of God.” Ellen
G. White, Selected Messages, vol. 1, p. 16
The doctrines of the Seventh-day Adventist Church are not built merely on a
single text. When the manuscripts disagree on a certain text, Bible students
must take into account other similar texts as well as the broader context.

Revelation Uses Both Expressions

The book of Revelation elsewhere uses both expressions, ‘keep the
commandments’ and ‘wash their robes’. The great multitude that no one could
number washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb:

Revelation 7:14 (‘washed their robes’)

“So he said to me, "These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation, and
washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.”


                                                                         Page 330 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The end time generation will ‘keep the commandments of God’:

Revelation 12:17

“And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the
rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the
testimony of Jesus Christ.”

In contrast with those who worship the beast, his image and receive his mark,
the faithful remnant will ‘keep the commandments’:

Revelation 14:12

“Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments
of God and the faith of Jesus.”

Other Texts in the Writings of John

There are several other texts in the writings of John where the expression ‘keep
the commandments’ is found:

1 John 2:3, 4

“Now by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments. 4 He
who says, "I know Him," and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the
truth is not in him. 5 But whoever keeps His word, truly the love of God is
perfected in him. By this we know that we are in Him. 6 He who says he abides in
Him ought himself also to walk just as He walked.”

1 John 3:22, 24

“And whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His
commandments and do [similar to Revelation 22:14] those things that are
pleasing in His sight.”




                                                                         Page 331 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
1 John 5:2, 3

“By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and keep
His commandments. 3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His
commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome.”

Genesis 1-3

We must also consider the broader context of Revelation 22:14 and that context
is in Genesis 1-3. Revelation 20-22 is the return to Genesis 1-3. Let’s notice first
the context of Genesis:

    Adam and Eve had to continue eating from the tree of life to continue
     living. The tree was similar to a battery charger.
    Adam and Eve broke God’s commandment in Genesis 2:15-17. In
     principle, all of the commandments were involved. That is why James
     wrote that whoever breaks one, breaks all.
    Adam and Eve were cast out of the gates of the garden (3:23, 24).
    God placed Cherubim at the gate to bar the entrance (3:23, 24).
    Adam and Eve were not able to eat from the tree of life (3:23, 24).
    The result was the curse (3:14, 17; 4:11).
    The curse finally let to Death (Genesis 3:19).
The book of Revelation reverses the steps of Genesis 2 and 3:

      God’s people will keep the commandments (Revelation 22:14).
      They will enter through the gates into the city (Revelation 22:14).
      Angel’s at the gates will let them in (Revelation 21:12).
      They will be able to eat from the tree of life (Revelation 22:14).
      There will be no more curse (Revelation 22:3).
      There will be no more death (Revelation 21:4).




                                                                         Page 332 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Commandment Breakers Outside

The reading ‘do his commandments’ is most likely the correct one for another
reason. Immediately after Revelation 22:14 brings to view the commandment
keepers, the very next verse gives a list of commandments that those outside
the city broke. In other words, inside are those who ‘do His commandments’
and outside are those who break them.

Revelation 22:15

“But outside are dogs and sorcerers [#1] sexually immoral [#7] and murderers
[#6] and idolaters [#2], and whoever loves and practices a lie [#9].”

Revelation 21:7-8

“He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be
My son. 8 But the cowardly [Romans 14:23], unbelieving [faithless], abominable,
murderers [#6] sexually immoral [#7], sorcerers [#1], idolaters [#2], and all liars
[#9] shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which
is the second death."

Revelation 21:27

“But there shall by no means enter it anything that defiles, or causes an
abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.”

Isaiah 26:1-3

“We have a strong city; God will appoint salvation for walls and bulwarks. 2 Open
the gates, that the righteous nation which keeps the truth may enter in. 3 You
will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on You, because he trusts in
You.”




                                                                         Page 333 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 334 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
              A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                          by Pastor Stephen Bohr


              Lesson #21 – The Right to the Tree of Life


The Origin of Life
God did not give man a soul, man does not have a soul, man is a soul:

Genesis 2:7

“And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living being.”

When we compare Matthew 16:26 with Luke 9:25 we understand that the soul
is the total person, body and breath together. According to Matthew, a man can
gain the whole world but lose his own ‘soul’. However, Luke tells us that a man
can lose ‘himself’:

Matthew 16:26

“For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?
Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?”




                                                                         Page 335 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Luke 9:25

“For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world, and is himself
destroyed or lost?”

Man’s Original Condition

God created a perfect body, in a perfect environment, with perfect laws of
health, and placed a life-sustaining tree in the Garden.

Genesis 2:9

“And out of the ground the LORD God made every tree grow that is pleasant to the
sight and good for food. The tree of life was also in the midst of the garden, and
the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.”

The tree of life had the purpose of teaching man that his life was contingent or
dependent, not inherent. His source of life was outside, not inside. The tree
was like a battery charger. In order to continue living, man had to continue
eating from the tree of life.

Ellen White confirms the record in Genesis:

“The fruit of the tree of life in the Garden of Eden possessed supernatural virtue.
To eat of it was to live forever. Its fruit was the antidote of death. Its leaves were
for the sustaining of life and immortality.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, vol. 8, p. 288

“In order to possess an endless existence, man must continue to partake of the
tree of life. Deprived of this, his vitality would gradually diminish until life should
become extinct.” Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 60.

Wheeler Robinson wrote about the tree:

“Paul conceived man to be mortal by his original nature, but with the prospect
of immortality; this, however, he forfeited when he was driven forth from Eden


                                                                         Page 336 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and therefore from the tree of life, which would have nourished immortality in
him; thus came death through sin.” Wheeler Robinson, The Christian Doctrine of
Man, p. 122.

The Origin of Death

God told Adam and Eve explicitly that if they ate from the tree of knowledge of
good and evil they would surely die:

Genesis 2:15-17

“Then the LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and
keep it. 16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the
garden you may freely eat; 17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you
shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die."

Satan assured Adam and Eve that they could eat from the tree and live forever:

Genesis 3:4

“And the serpent said to the woman, you shall not surely die.”

Adam and Eve ate the fruit of the forbidden tree:

Genesis 3:6

“So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to
the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She
also gave to her husband with her, and he ate.”

God assured man that he would return to dust because of sin:

Genesis 3:19

“In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you [not your body but you]
return to the ground, for out of it you were taken; for dust you [not your body]
are, and to dust you [not your body] shall return."


                                                                         Page 337 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
God placed cherubim at the entrance to the Garden of Eden to prevent humans
from partaking of the tree of life:

Genesis 3:22-24

“Then the LORD God said, "Behold, the man has become like one of Us, to know
good and evil. And now, lest he put out his hand and take also of the tree of life,
and eat, and live forever"—23 therefore the LORD God sent him out of the garden
of Eden to till the ground from which he was taken. 24 So He drove out the man;
and He placed cherubim at the east of the Garden of Eden, and a flaming sword
which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life.”

Thus, human beings no longer had access to the tree of life to recharge their
battery or vital force. Now, a deteriorating environment and wrong personal
health habits would wear down the battery resulting in death.

    Human beings had to continue eating from the tree of life to in order to
     perpetuate life forever.
    If man were immortal by nature, what good would it have done for God
     to bar him from the tree?
    If man were immortal, why would Jesus need to die to give him what he
     already possessed?

Life Spans Before the Flood

Genesis 5

At the beginning, God gave man a fully charged battery. During the first 1,600
years of human history, men lived 930, 912, 905, 910, 895, 962, 969, 777,
950 years. Yet eventually the battery wore down and because there was no
access to the battery charger, it died and man ceased to function. The
Energizer Bunny eventually does run out of juice!




                                                                         Page 338 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“As Adam and Eve ate of this tree, they acknowledged their dependence upon God.
The tree of life possessed the power to perpetuate life, and as long as they ate of
it, they could not die. The lives of the antediluvians were protracted because of
the life-giving power of this tree, which was transmitted to them from Adam
and Eve.” Ellen White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 988

In Genesis 5:5, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 27, 30; 9:29, the formula ‘and he died’
appears for every antediluvian patriarch except Enoch whom God translated to
heaven.

Romans 6:23

“For the wages of sin is death.” GOD WAS RIGHT!

Romans 5:12

“Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin,
and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned.”

Life Spans Between the Flood and Abraham

According to Genesis 11 the live span of those who lived between the flood and
the time of Abraham was significantly reduced: 600, 438, 433, 464, 239, 239,
230, 148, 205 and 175. Several factors led to this reduction in the life span:

    A deteriorating body
    A deteriorating environment
    A violation of the laws of health
    No access to the tree of life

The Days of Moses

In the days of Moses, the life span had diminished to 120 years:




                                                                         Page 339 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Deuteronomy 34:7

“Moses was one hundred and twenty years old when he died. His eyes were not
dim nor his natural vigor diminished.”

The Days of David

In the days of David, the life span had reduced to seventy or eighty years:

Psalm 90:10

“The days of our lives are seventy years; and if by reason of strength they are
eighty years, yet their boast is only labor and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we
fly away.”

Why No Death That Very Day?

God warned Adam and Eve that they would die the very day they ate from the
forbidden tree:

Genesis 2:17

“But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day
that you eat of it you shall surely die."

Adam and Eve did not die that very day because that very day Jesus offered to
suffer the death that they deserved:

Genesis 3:21

“Also for Adam and his wife the LORD God made tunics of skin, and clothed them.”

“The instant Adam yielded to Satan's temptation, and did the very thing which
God had said he should not do, Christ, the Son of God, stood between the living and
the dead, saying, ‘Let the punishment fall on Me. I will stand in man's place.
Give him another trial.’ Transgression placed the whole world under the death-



                                                                         Page 340 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
sentence. But in heaven there was heard a voice saying, ‘I have found a ransom.’"
Ellen G. White, The Bible Echo, May 21, 1900.

1 Peter 1:18-21

“. . . knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, like silver or
gold, from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers, 19 but
with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot.
20 He indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was

manifest in these last times for you.”

Revelation 13:8

“All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written
in the Book of Life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.”

2 Timothy 1:10: Jesus brought life and immortality to light through the
gospel. Therefore, we are not immortal by nature but only through Christ.

“. . . but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who
has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.”

Romans 2:6, 7: If man is immortal by nature, why must he seek for what he
already has?

 “. . . who ‘will render to each one according to his deeds’: 7 eternal life to those
who by patient continuance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and
immortality.”

We Still Die

However, even those who have accepted Jesus still die. Why? Because we still
do not have access to the tree of life. When our battery runs out, we die.
However, all this changes for those who believe in Jesus:




                                                                         Page 341 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
John 6:39, 40, 44

“This is the will of the Father who sent Me, that of all He has given Me I should lose
nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. 40 And this is the will of Him who
sent Me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have everlasting
life; and I will raise him up at the last day." 44 No one can come to Me unless the
Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up at the last day.”

If we receive Jesus, who is what the tree of life represents, we now have the
guarantee of immortality when Jesus returns.

“To everyone who believes, He is as the Tree of Life in the Paradise of God. His
branches reach to the lower world, in order that the blessings He has purchased
for us may be brought within our reach. From this tree we may pluck and eat,
and then guide others to it, that they also may eat.” Ellen G. White, Bible Training
School, August 1, 1905.

“After the entrance of sin, the heavenly Husbandman transplanted the tree of
life to the Paradise above; but its branches hang over the wall to the lower
world. Through the redemption purchased by the blood of Christ, we may still
eat of its life-giving fruit.” Ellen G. White, Heaven, p. 172

The Final Touch of Immortality

1 Corinthians 15:52-55

When Jesus returns, the dead in Christ will rise and along with the living
saints will receive the touch of immortality. Immortality is not something we
inherently possess because we must put it on:

“Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed—
52 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will

sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. 53 For
this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on
immortality. 54 So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this

                                                                         Page 342 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is
written: ‘Death is swallowed up in victory.’ 55 "O Death, where is your sting? O
Hades, where is your victory?"

I once was talking with a friend who believes that man is by nature immortal.
I asked him, do you believe that man is omnipotent, omniscient and
omnipresent? His answer was immediate: ‘of course not, only God possesses
these qualities’. Then I asked him another question: Why then is man immortal?
Is not immortality a quality that belongs only inherently to God? God can
communicate immortality to man but it will always be contingent on Him.

1 Timothy 6:13-16

“I urge you in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus
who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate, 14 that you keep this
commandment without spot, blameless until our Lord Jesus Christ's appearing, 15
which He will manifest in His own time, He who is the blessed and only Potentate,
the King of kings and Lord of lords, 16 who alone has immortality, dwelling in
unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and
everlasting power. Amen.”

Restoration to the Tree of Life (restored to the charger)

When God restores all to the way it was in the beginning, there will be no more
death:

Revelation 21:4

“And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death,
nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have
passed away."

God’s people will go monthly to worship before the Lord:




                                                                         Page 343 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Isaiah 66:22, 23

“For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make shall remain before
Me," says the LORD, "So shall your descendants and your name remain. 23 And it
shall come to pass that from one New Moon to another, and from one Sabbath
to another, all flesh shall come to worship before Me," says the LORD.”

The reason why the redeemed will go monthly to worship the Lord is to eat
from the tree of life:

Revelation 22:1, 2

“And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from
the throne of God and of the Lamb. 2 In the middle of its street, and on either side
of the river, was the tree of life, which bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its
fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.”

Ellen White wrote regarding the tree of life:

“Here we saw the tree of life and the throne of God. Out of the throne came a pure
river of water, and on either side of the river was the tree of life. On one side of
the river was a trunk of a tree, and a trunk on the other side of the river, both of
pure, transparent gold. At first I thought I saw two trees. I looked again, and saw
that they were united at the top in one tree. So it was the tree of life on either
side of the river of life. Its branches bowed to the place where we stood, and the
fruit was glorious; it looked like gold mixed with silver. Ellen G. White, Early
Writings, p. 17
Revelation 2:7

“He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who
overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the midst of the
Paradise of God." '

There are conditions for entering the city and eating the fruit of the tree of life:



                                                                         Page 344 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 22:14, 15 Notice the conditions to be inside and outside:

“Blessed are those who do His commandments that they may have the right to
the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. 15 But outside are
dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and
whoever loves and practices a lie.”

Must Receive Jesus Now

Now let us complete our reading of Romans 6:23 of which we quoted only part
before:

Romans 6:23

“For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our
Lord.”

In order to enter the city, we must be ‘in Christ’:

1 Thessalonians 4:15-17

“For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain
until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. 16 For
the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an
archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. 17
Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord.”

God reckons us in Christ when we are baptized:

Galatians 3:26, 27

“For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. 27 For as many of you as
were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.”

When we receive Christ we have eternal life as a guarantee:



                                                                         Page 345 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
1 John 5:11, 12

“And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His
Son. 12 He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not
have life.” [Maybe ‘existence’ but not ‘life’]




                                                                         Page 346 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


             Lesson #22 – The Therapeutic Tree of Life



Before Sin and After the Rebellion of Lucifer

Before the intrusion of sin into the universe Jesus was already subject to the
will of His Father:

“The Father wrought by His Son in the creation of all heavenly beings. . . The King
of the universe summoned the heavenly hosts before Him, that in their presence
He might set forth the true position [because Lucifer had deceived the angels
into thinking and he and Christ were equals] of His Son and show the relation
He sustained to all created beings. The Son of God shared the Father's throne,
and the glory of the eternal, self-existent One encircled both. About the throne
gathered the holy angels, a vast, unnumbered throng--"ten thousand times ten
thousand, and thousands of thousands" (Revelation 5:11.), the most exalted
angels, as ministers and subjects, rejoicing in the light that fell upon them from
the presence of the Deity. Before the assembled inhabitants of heaven, the King
declared that none but Christ, the Only Begotten of God, could fully enter into His
purposes, and to Him it was committed to execute the mighty counsels of His will.
The Son of God had wrought the Father's will in the creation of all the hosts of


                                                                         Page 347 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
heaven; and to Him, as well as to God, their homage and allegiance were due.
Christ was still to exercise divine power, in the creation of the earth and its
inhabitants. But in all this He would not seek power or exaltation for Himself
contrary to God's plan, but would exalt the Father's glory and execute His
purposes of beneficence and love.” Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 36
The Bible confirms the Spirit of Prophecy scenario that Christ executed the
Father’s plan in the creation of all things:

John 1:1-3

“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was
God. 2 He was in the beginning with God. 3 All things were made through Him,
and without Him nothing was made that was made.”

1 Corinthians 8:6

“yet for us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we for Him;
and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and through whom we
live.”

Colossians 1:15-17

“He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. 16 For by
Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible
and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All
things were created through Him and for Him. 17 And He is before all things,
and in Him all things consist [hold together].”

Hebrews 1:1, 2

“God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers
by the prophets, 2 has in these last days spoken to us by His Son, whom He has
appointed heir of all things, through whom also He [the Father] made the
worlds.”



                                                                         Page 348 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Before the incarnation the physical height of Jesus was greater than the angels:

“Before Christ left Heaven, and came into the world to die, he was taller than any
of the angels. He was majestic and lovely.” Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 4a,
p. 115

How much taller was taller than any of the angels?

“As Adam came forth from the hand of his Creator he was of noble height and of
beautiful symmetry. He was more than twice as tall [more than 12 feet] as men
now living upon the earth [the average now is about 6 feet], and was well
proportioned. His features were perfect and beautiful. His complexion was neither
white nor sallow, but ruddy, glowing with the rich tint of health.” Ellen G. White,
The Story of Redemption, p. 20

Permission from His Father to Die

After Adam and Eve sinned, Jesus asked His Father for permission to come to
the earth to die in man’s place. Clearly, Jesus was still subject to His Father’s
will:

“The whole family of Adam must die. I then saw the lovely Jesus and beheld an
expression of sympathy and sorrow upon His countenance. Soon I saw Him
approach the exceeding bright light which enshrouded the Father. Said my
accompanying angel, "He is in close converse with His Father." The anxiety of the
angels seemed to be intense while Jesus was communing with His Father. Three
times He was shut in by the glorious light about the Father, and the third time
He came from the Father we could see His person. His countenance was       from
all perplexity and trouble, and shone with a loveliness which words cannot
describe. He then made known to the angelic choir that a way of escape had been
made for lost man; that He had been pleading with His Father, and had
obtained permission to give His own life as a ransom for the race, to bear their
sins, and take the sentence of death upon Himself, thus opening a way whereby
they might, through the merits of His blood, find pardon for past transgressions,

                                                                         Page 349 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
and by obedience be brought back to the garden from which they were driven.
Then they could again have access to the glorious, immortal fruit of the tree of life
to which they had now forfeited all right.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 126

The Incarnation

The Father’s took the initiative to send Jesus to this world:

John 3:16

“For God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that whosoever
believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.”

The Father prepared the body of Jesus at the incarnation and Jesus came to
execute His Father’s will:

Hebrews 10:5-7

“Therefore, when He came into the world, He said: "Sacrifice and offering You did
not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me [for me to offer]. 6 In burnt
offerings and sacrifices for sin You had no pleasure. 7 Then I said, 'Behold, I have
come —in the volume of the book it is written of Me —To do Your will, O God.'"

The physical stature of Jesus was a little taller than the average stature of men
at that time:

“When his ministry commenced, he was but little taller than the common size of
men [six feet average] then living upon the earth. Had he come among men with
his noble, heavenly form, his outward appearance would have attracted the minds
of the people to himself, and he would have been received without the exercise
of faith.” Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 4a, p. 115

“It would have been an almost infinite humiliation for the Son of God to take
man's nature, even when Adam stood in his innocence in Eden. But Jesus
accepted humanity when the race had been weakened by four thousand years of
sin. Like every child of Adam He accepted the results of the working of the great


                                                                         Page 350 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
law of heredity. What these results were is shown in the history of His earthly
ancestors. He came with such a heredity to share our sorrows and temptations,
and to give us the example of a sinless life.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p.
49

During His Ministry

During His ministry, Jesus announced that the Father was greater than He:

John 14:28

You have heard Me say to you, 'I am going away and coming back to you.' If you
loved Me, you would rejoice because I said, 'I am going to the Father,' for My
Father is greater than I.”

Jesus came to execute the will of His Father:

John 5:30; 6:38

“I can of Myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge; and My judgment is righteous,
because I do not seek My own will but the will of the Father who sent Me.”

“For I have come down from heaven, not to do My own will, but the will of Him
who

Ellen White agreed that Jesus was subject to His Father’s plans:

sent Me.”

“So utterly was Christ emptied of self that He made no plans for Himself. He
accepted God's plans for Him, and day by day the Father unfolded His plans.”
Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 208

At the End of His Ministry

In the Garden of Gethsemane Jesus prayed that His Father’s will be done:




                                                                         Page 351 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Matthew 26:39, 42, 44

He went a little farther and fell on His face, and prayed, saying, "O My Father, if it
is possible, let this cup pass from Me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will.
. .42 Again, a second time, He went away and prayed, saying, "O My Father, if this
cup cannot pass away from Me unless I drink it, Your will be done." 44 So He left
them, went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.

The Resurrection

Jesus commended His spirit in to the safekeeping of His Father:

Luke 23:46

“And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, He said, "Father, 'into Your
hands I commit My spirit.'" Having said this, He breathed His last.”

Jesus resurrected by authorization from His Father:

John 10:17, 18

"Therefore My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it
again. 18 No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have power
[authority] to lay it down, and I have power [authority] to take it again. This
command I have received from My Father."

“He who died for the sins of the world was to remain in the tomb for the allotted
time. He was in that stony prison house as a prisoner of divine justice, and he
was responsible to the Judge of the universe. He was bearing the sins of the
world, and his Father only could release him.” Ellen G. White, The Youth’s
Instructor, May 2, 1901

“The light of heaven encircled the tomb, and the whole heaven was lighted by the
glory of the angel. The angel approached the grave, and rolling away the stone as
if it had been a pebble, he sat upon it. Then his voice was heard, Son of God, come
forth; Thy Father calls Thee; and Jesus came forth from the grave with the step

                                                                         Page 352 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
of a mighty conqueror. There was a burst of triumph, for the heavenly family were
waiting to receive Him; and the mighty angel, followed by the army of heaven,
bowed in adoration before Him as He, the Monarch of heaven, proclaimed over
the rent tomb of Joseph, "I am the resurrection, and the life." Ellen G. White, Sons
and Daughters of God, p. 237

Jesus came out of the tomb with the same physical stature as when He was
buried:

“When the Life-giver rose from the dead a triumphant conqueror, and made
himself known unto his disciples, he was of the same size as before his crucifixion.
There were no special marks which would at once cause the men of Emmaus to
know that he was the Son of God. They did not know him until he told them who
he was.” Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 4a, p. 119

In the Ascension

When Jesus ascended to heaven, His Father performed a miracle and restored
Him to his pre-incarnate physical stature:

“But when he ascended up on high, and led a multitude of captives, escorted by
the heavenly host, and was received in through the gates of the city, with angelic
songs of triumph and rejoicing, I beheld with admiration and wonder, that he
possessed the same exalted stature that he had before he came into the
world to die for man. Said the angel, God, who wrought so great a miracle as to
make Christ flesh to dwell among men, and will with his almighty power lift up
fallen, degenerate, and dwarfed man, and after they are redeemed from the earth,
make them ‘grow up as calves of the stall,’ could in his infinite power return to
his dear Son his own exalted stature, which was his before he left Heaven, and
humbled himself as a man, and submitted to the death of the cross.” Ellen G.
White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 4a, p. 119




                                                                         Page 353 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
His Exaltation Upon Arrival in Heaven

When Jesus ascended to heaven He was still under the authority of His Father.
The Father gave Him the name that is above every name and everyone is to
bow before Him to the glory of God the Father:

Philippians 2:5-11

“Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, 6 who, being in the form of
God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, [did not consider equality
with God as something to cling to] 7 but made Himself of no reputation, taking
the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. 8 And being found
in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to the point
of death, even the death of the cross. 9 Therefore God also has highly exalted Him
and given Him the name which is above every name, 10 that at the name of Jesus
every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those
under the earth, 11 and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord,
to the glory of God the Father.”

Acts 5:31

“Him God has exalted to His right hand to be Prince and Savior, to give
repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.”

1 Timothy 3 describes the descent and ascent of Jesus:

1 Timothy 3:16

“And without controversy [by common consent, according to the agreement
of all, without any room for dispute] great is the mystery of godliness”:

    God was manifested in the flesh (the incarnation)
    Justified in the Spirit (the resurrection)
    Seen by angels (the ascension)
    Preached among the Gentiles (the mission to the Gentiles)


                                                                         Page 354 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    Believed on in the world (those who believed the message)
    Received up in glory (at the second coming)

In Heaven Now

The Father continues to be the head of Jesus in heaven:

1 Corinthians 11:3

“But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman
is man, and the head of Christ is God.”

For Eternity

In eternity future Jesus will subject Himself to the will of His Father:

1 Corinthians 15:27, 28

“The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. 27 For "He [the Father] has put
all things under His [Jesus’] feet." But when He [the Father] says "all things are
put under Him [under Jesus]," it is evident that He [the Father] who put all
things under Him [Jesus] is excepted. 28 Now when all things are made subject to
Him [to Jesus], then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all
things under Him, that God [the Father] may be all in all.”

The Resurrection Size of the Righteous

The righteous will resurrect with the same physical stature they had when they
passed away:

“All come forth from their graves the same in stature as when they entered the
tomb. Adam, who stands among the risen throng, is of lofty height and majestic
form, in stature but little below the Son of God. He presents a marked contrast
to the people of later generations; in this one respect is shown the great
degeneracy of the race. But all arise with the freshness and vigor of eternal
youth.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 644


                                                                         Page 355 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
After Eating from the Tree of Life

Restored to the tree of life, the redeemed will grow to the size of the original
race:

Revelation 22:2

“In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river, was the tree of life, which
bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree
were for the healing [therapeía] of the nations.”

There will be no more illness in the earth made new. The leaves are for the
redeemed to continue enjoying health and the fruit is to perpetuate life.

“He will change our vile bodies and fashion them like unto His glorious body. The
mortal, corruptible form, devoid of comeliness, once polluted with sin, becomes
perfect, beautiful, and immortal. All blemishes and deformities are left in the
grave. Restored to the tree of life in the long-lost Eden, the redeemed will ‘grow
up’ (Malachi 4:2) to the full stature of the race in its primeval glory. The last
lingering traces of the curse of sin will be removed, and Christ's faithful ones will
appear in ‘the beauty of the Lord our God,’ in mind and soul and body reflecting
the perfect image of their Lord. Oh, wonderful redemption! long talked of, long
hoped for, contemplated with eager anticipation, but never fully understood.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 644

Jesus Will Bear the Marks

Some might be wondering why the redeemed will resurrect with the same
physical stature they had when they died. After all, will not the redeemed
receive bodies without any defects? Isn’t the reduced size a defect? Not
necessarily. The bodies of the redeemed will be immortal and incorruptible
such as the glorified body of Jesus. However, Jesus will bear the marks of the
crucifixion on His body for eternity! Would this not be a defect on the glorified
body of Jesus?



                                                                         Page 356 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Zechariah 13:6

“And one will say to him, 'What are these wounds between your arms?' Then he
will answer, 'Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.'

“One reminder alone remains: Our Redeemer will ever bear the marks of His
crucifixion. Upon His wounded head, upon His side, His hands and feet, are the
only traces of the cruel work that sin has wrought. Says the prophet, beholding
Christ in His glory: ‘He had bright beams coming out of His side: and there was
the hiding of His power.’ Habakkuk 3:4, margin. That pierced side whence flowed
the crimson stream that reconciled man to God—there is the Savior's glory, there
‘the hiding of His power.’ ‘Mighty to save,’ through the sacrifice of redemption, He
was therefore strong to execute justice upon them that despised God's mercy. And
the tokens of His humiliation are His highest honor; through the eternal ages
the wounds of Calvary will show forth His praise and declare His power.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 674

The First and the Last

When the disciples disputed about who of them would be the greatest in the
coming kingdom, Jesus made a somewhat paradoxical statement about the first
and the last:

Mark 9:33-35

“Then He came to Capernaum. And when He was in the house He asked them,
"What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road?" 34 But they kept silent,
for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest.
35 And He sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, "If anyone desires to be

first, he shall be last of all and servant of all."

Humbling and Exalting

Jesus taught an important lesson to those who aspired to occupy the highest
places:


                                                                         Page 357 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Luke 14:7-11

“So He told a parable to those who were invited, when He noted how they chose
the best places, saying to them: 8 "When you are invited by anyone to a wedding
feast, do not sit down in the best place, lest one more honorable than you be
invited by him; 9 and he who invited you and him come and say to you, 'Give place
to this man,' and then you begin with shame to take the lowest place. 10 But when
you are invited, go and sit down in the lowest place, so that when he who invited
you comes he may say to you, 'Friend, go up higher.' Then you will have glory in
the presence of those who sit at the table with you. 11 For whoever exalts himself
will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted."

Matthew 23:11, 12

Jesus described the desire of the scribes and Pharisees to be first:

    They sit on Moses seat
    They bind heavy burdens on the populace
    They show off their piety by their phylacteries
    They take the best places at feasts and the synagogues
    They love to be greeted in the market places
    They love to be called ‘rabbi, rabbi’
Then Jesus instructed His disciples to have a servant mentality:

“But he who is greatest among you shall be your servant. 12 And whoever exalts
himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.”

People today tend to rank people according to their:

    Their looks.
    The car they drive.
    The house they live in.
    The educational they have earned.
    Their rank in society.


                                                                         Page 358 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    Their social status (the haves and the have nots).
    Their political party association.
    Their gender.
    Their nationality.
    Their race.
    Their caste.
Ellen White wrote about all of these human distinctions:

“No distinction on account of nationality, race, or caste, is recognized by God. He
is the Maker of all mankind. All men are of one family by creation, and all are
one through redemption. Christ came to demolish every wall of partition, to
throw open every compartment of the temple, that every soul may have free
access to God.” Ellen G. White, Christ Object Lessons, p. 386

The Central Lesson

James 4:10

“Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up.”

1 Peter 5:6

“Therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt
you in due time.”

“Self-surrender is the substance of the teachings of Christ. Often it is presented
and enjoined in language that seems authoritative, because there is no other way
to save man than to cut away those things which, if entertained, will demoralize
the whole being.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 523

Back to Lucifer

The Bible mentions another mystery, the mystery of iniquity. Those who exalt
themselves will be humbled:



                                                                         Page 359 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Isaiah 14:12-15

How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are cut
down to the ground, you who weakened the nations! 13 For [because] you have
said in your heart: 'I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the
stars of God; I will also sit on the mount of the congregation On the farthest sides
of the north; 14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the
Most High.' 15 Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol, to the lowest depths of
the Pit.




                                                                         Page 360 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr


 Lesson #23 – Righteousness by Faith and the Final Conflict



Introduction

When we examine the book of Revelation in the Red Letter Edition of the New
Testament we find a very interesting detail. In the first three chapters of the
book, Jesus personally speaks to each of the seven churches. However, after
Revelation 3:21 (with the lone exception of Revelation 16:15) He does not
speak again until Revelation 22:7. This means that Revelation 16:15 must be
extremely important:

Revelation 16:15

"Behold, I am coming as a [1] thief. Blessed is he who [2] watches, and [3] keeps
his [4] garments, lest he [5] walk naked and they see [6] his shame."

Message for Seventh-day Adventists

This verse is particularly applicable to Seventh-day Adventists because it
contains many common elements with the message of Jesus to the church of
Laodicea where Jesus warns the Laodiceans that they wear the robe of Christ’s


                                                                         Page 361 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
righteousness lest they be found naked after the close of probation:

Revelation 3:18

“I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined in the fire, that you may be rich; and
white garments, that you may be clothed, that the shame of your nakedness
may not be revealed; and anoint your eyes with eye salve, that you may see.”

According to the Spirit of Prophecy, the message to the church of Laodicea
applies especially to Seventh-day Adventists. This means that the warning of
Revelation 16:15 applies to us:

“The message to the Laodiceans is applicable to Seventh-day Adventists who
have had great light and have not walked in the light. It is those who have made
great profession, but have not kept in step with their Leader, that will be spewed
out [the shaking] of His mouth unless they repent.” Ellen G. White, Selected
Message, vol. 2, p. 66

Revelation 3:18 and The Shaking

According to the Spirit of Prophecy, the message to the Laodiceans is so vitally
important that it will cause the shaking among God’s professed people.
‘Spewing out of the mouth’ is synonymous with being shaken out. Thus, Ellen
White wrote:

“I asked the meaning of the shaking I had seen, and was shown that it would be
caused by the straight testimony called forth by the counsel of the True Witness
to the Laodiceans. This will have its effect upon the heart of the receiver, and will
lead him to exalt the standard and pour forth the straight truth. Some will not
bear this straight testimony. They will rise up against it, and this will cause a
shaking among God's people.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1,
p. 181

The Context of Revelation 16:15

In order to understand Revelation 16:15 we must examine the context.

                                                                         Page 362 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Revelation 16:12 describes the sixth plague toward the end of the great
tribulation when the persecuting waters (multitudes, nations, tongues and
people) of Babylon withdraw their support and turn against her:

Revelation 16:12

“Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates
[Babylon’s symbolic river], and its water [multitudes, nations, tongues and
people] was dried up [withdraw their support from Babylon], so that the way
of the kings from the east [Jesus and His angels] might be prepared.”

The book of Revelation contains many parenthetical statements that break the
flow of thought. Revelation 16:13, 14 is one of those parenthetical statements
(see also, Revelation 10:7; 11:18; 15:1; 18:1-4; 20:5, last sentence). These
verses take us back in time to probationary time when three counterfeit
angels are gathering the wicked world on Satan’s side for the final battle of
Armageddon. Satan’s purpose in gathering the wicked waters is for them to
drown God’s people. At the same time, three holy angels are gathering God’s
people on the Lord’s side. Here is the description of the gathering of the wicked:

“And I saw three unclean spirits [three evil angels] like frogs coming out of the
mouth of the dragon [the secular powers of the world], out of the mouth of the
beast [the papacy], and out of the mouth of the false prophet [apostate
Protestantism]. 14 For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out
to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle
[against God in the person of His witnesses] of that great day of God Almighty
[Armageddon].”




                                                                         Page 363 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
     Gathering of the Righteous                    Gathering of the Wicked

Three holy angels gather righteous           Three evil angels gather wicked on
on God’s side                                Satan’s side

The righteous follow the lamb                The wicked follow the beast

The righteous worship God                    The wicked worship the beast

The righteous are gathered in                The wicked are gathered in Babylon
spiritual Jerusalem

The righteous receive the seal of God The wicked receive the mark of the
                                      beast



The Spirit of Prophecy confirms that the gathering of the wicked in Revelation
16:13, 14 occurs before the close of probation:

“The present is a solemn, fearful time for the church. The angels are already
girded, awaiting the mandate of God to pour their vials of wrath upon the world.
Destroying angels are taking up the work of vengeance for the Spirit of God is
gradually withdrawing from the world. Satan is also mustering his forces of evil,
going forth "unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world," to gather them
under his banner, to be trained for "the battle of that great day of God Almighty."
Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 983

The Revelation 16:15 Parenthesis

Revelation 16:15 is a parenthetical statement that encourages God’s people
to gather on the Lord’s side for the final battle before the close of probation:

"Behold, I am coming as a [1] thief. Blessed is he who [2] watches, and [3] keeps

                                                                         Page 364 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
his [4] garments, lest he [5] walk naked and they see [6] his shame."

This warning would be fruitless after the close of probation because by then all
cases have already been decided. The ESV, NASB, NET, NRSV and other
versions put this verse in parentheses indicating that it breaks the flow of
thought. The context indicates that the insertion of parentheses around verse
15 is correct. Notice that verse 14 ends with the word ‘gather’ and verse 16
picks up again with the same word ‘gather’. Let’s link Revelation 16:16 with
Revelation 16:14 while skipping verse 15:

“For they [the three counterfeit angels] are spirits of demons, performing signs,
which go out to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to
the battle of that great day of God Almighty . . . 16 And they [the three counterfeit
angels] gathered them [the kings of the earth and the whole world] together
to the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon.”

The Expressions of Revelation 16:15

‘I come as a thief’

This expression does not refer to the second coming of Christ but rather to the
close of probation. Matthew 24:37-39 makes this clear (for more, read the
book: Taken or Left published by Secrets Unsealed.

Matthew 24:42-44

“Watch therefore, for you do not know what hour your Lord is coming. 43 But
know this, that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief would
come, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. 44
Therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not
expect.”




                                                                         Page 365 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Ellen White explained the coming of Jesus as a thief:

“Jesus has left us word: "Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the Master of
the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the
morning: lest coming suddenly He find you sleeping. And what I say unto you I
say unto all, Watch." We are [Seventh-day Adventists] waiting and watching
for the return of the Master, who is to bring the morning, lest coming suddenly
He find us sleeping. What time is here referred to? Not to the revelation of
Christ in the clouds of heaven to find a people asleep. No; but to His return from
His ministration in the most holy place of the heavenly sanctuary, when He lays
off His priestly attire and clothes Himself with garments of vengeance, and when
the mandate goes forth: "He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is
filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still; and
he that is holy, let him be holy still." When Jesus ceases to plead for man, the
cases of all are forever decided. This is the time of reckoning with His servants. To
those who have neglected the preparation of purity and holiness, which fits them
to be waiting ones to welcome their Lord, the sun sets in gloom and darkness, and
rises not again. Probation closes; Christ's intercessions cease in heaven. This
time finally comes suddenly upon all, and those who have neglected to purify
their souls by obeying the truth are found sleeping. They became weary of
waiting and watching; they became indifferent in regard to the coming of their
Master. They longed not for His appearing, and thought there was no need of
such continued, persevering watching. They had been disappointed in their
expectations and might be again. They concluded that there was time enough yet
to arouse. They would be sure not to lose the opportunity of securing an earthly
treasure. It would be safe to get all of this world they could. And in securing this
object, they lost all anxiety and interest in the appearing of the Master. They
became indifferent and careless, as though His coming were yet in the distance.
But while their interest was buried up in their worldly gains, the work closed
in the heavenly sanctuary, and they were unprepared.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, pp. 190-192




                                                                         Page 366 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
‘Watch’

In the New Testament, watching is the opposite of slumbering and sleeping.
It means ‘to be alert, awake, aware, vigilant’. Jesus instructed His disciples in
the Garden to watch but instead they slept.

Matthew 26:38, 40

“Then He said to them, "My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here
and watch with Me." 40 Then He came to the disciples and found them sleeping,
and said to Peter, "What! Could you not watch with Me one hour?”

In the conclusion of the parable of the ten virgins, Jesus warned His followers
to ‘watch’ because they did not know the day or hour of the Son of Man’s
coming. The coming of the Son of Man in the parable is not the second coming.
The coming of the Son of Man takes place in heaven when He goes to His Father
to receive the kingdom or marry His bride. The closing of the door in the parable
of the virgins represents the close of probation.

Matthew 25:13

“Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of
Man is coming.”

Jesus warned the church of Sardis to watch lest he come to them as a thief. This
warning cannot apply to the second coming because when He comes the entire
world will know it:

Revelation 3:3

“Remember therefore how you have received and heard; hold fast and repent.
Therefore, if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not
know what hour I will come upon you.”




                                                                         Page 367 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
‘Keep’

The word tereo means ‘to preserve, to protect, to safeguard’. According to the
Exegetical Dictionary of the New Testament it means, “keeping or preserving the
unblemished nature of a person or a condition.”

The call here is to remain faithful until the end by preserving unblemished the
garments they once received. It does not refer to the moment a person
received the garment but rather encourages the person to ‘preserve, protect
and safeguard’ the garment that they had received in the past. Here are some
examples:

    Paul kept the faith until the end of his life (2 Timothy 4:7).
    Paul encouraged the Ephesians to keep unity (Ephesians 4:3).
    The rebel angels did not keep their place in heaven (Jude 6).

White Garments and Walking Naked

It is vitally important to remember that Revelation 16:15 draws a contrast
between being clothed and walking naked. What does the word ‘walk’ mean,
symbolically speaking? Walking is an action word. Whenever the Bible uses
the word ‘walk’ in a figurative sense it refers to behavior or conduct. There
are two ways of walking: Walking naked or walking clothed. Notice the
following verses:

Ephesians 2:10

“For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God
prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.”

1 John 2:6

“He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk just as He walked.”




                                                                         Page 368 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Hebrews 11:5 tells us that Enoch pleased God:

“By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, "and was not found,
because God had taken him"; for before he was taken he had this testimony
[witness], that he pleased God.”

Genesis 5:24 clarifies that pleasing God means to walk with Him:

“And Enoch walked with God; and he was not, for God took him.”

In contrast to the righteous who walk with God, the wicked walk according to
this world in disobedience to God:

Ephesians 2:1-3

“And you He made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, 2 in which you
once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the
power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, 3 among
whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the
desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just
as the others.”

Colossians 3:6-7

“Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of
disobedience, 7 in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them.”

According to Revelation 3:4-6 the faithful remnant in the church of Sardis did
not defile their garments. Therefore, they must have already received garments
that they could defile:

Revelation 3:4-6

“Therefore if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not
know what hour I will come upon you [this can happen at death or when
probation closes]. 4 You have a few names even in Sardis who have not [past]


                                                                         Page 369 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
defiled their garments; and they shall [future] walk with Me in white, for they
are worthy. 5 He who overcomes shall be clothed [when the name comes up
in the judgment] in white garments, and I will not blot out his name from the
Book of Life; but I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels.”

Verses 3 and 4 describe three dimensions to the garments:

    The remnant of Sardis had garments while they lived on earth and did
     not defile them.
    They are clothed in white garments when their names come up in the
     judgment (see Matthew 22:11).
    They shall walk with Jesus in white garments in the kingdom.


The Robe of Sanctification

In Revelation 19:8 the white raiment is defined as the righteous acts of the
saints so the garment must refer to sanctification rather than justification:

“Let us be glad and rejoice and give Him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has
come, and His wife has made herself ready." 8 And to her it was granted to be
arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts
of the saints.”

Ellen White described the garment of Revelation 19:8:

“By the wedding garment in the parable is represented the pure, spotless
character which Christ's true followers will possess. To the church it is given "that
she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white," "not having spot, or wrinkle,
or any such thing" Revelation 19:8; Ephesians 5:27. The fine linen, says the
Scripture, "is the righteousness of saints" Revelation 19:8. It is the righteousness
of Christ, His own unblemished character that through faith is imparted to all
who receive Him as their personal Savior.” Ellen G. White, Christ Object Lessons,
p. 310



                                                                         Page 370 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
When probation closes the distinction between the evildoer and the righteous
will be manifest. The evildoer will continue doing evil and the righteous will
continue doing right! The emphasis is on righteousness in action.

Revelation 22:11, ESV

“Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still
do right, and the holy still be holy."

The working faith of the righteous is not something they come up with. It is as
much the righteousness of Christ as is justification. Ellen White equates the fig-
leaf garment of Adam and Eve with nakedness and the deformity of sin. In
other words, to cover ourselves with our own righteousness is equivalent to
nakedness. This is the reason why, when Adam and Eve sinned, they still felt
naked and ashamed even after they had covered themselves with fig leaf
garments (see Genesis 3:8):

“By His perfect obedience He has made it possible for every human being to obey
God's commandments. When we submit ourselves to Christ, the heart is united
with His heart, the will is merged in His will, the mind becomes one with His mind,
the thoughts are brought into captivity to Him; we live His life. This is what it
means to be clothed with the garment of His righteousness. Then as the Lord looks
upon us He sees, not the fig-leaf garment, not the nakedness and deformity of
sin, but His own robe of righteousness, which is perfect obedience to the law of
Jehovah. Ellen G. White, Christ Object Lessons, p. 311

Righteousness by Faith in Verity

There is much talk these days about the 1888 message. In fact, entire books
have been written on the subject. The 1888 message was not complicated. Ellen
White explained it in a short paragraph:

“It [the 1888 message] presented justification through faith in the Surety; it
invited the people to receive the righteousness of Christ, which is made



                                                                         Page 371 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
manifest in obedience to all the commandments of God.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, pp. 91, 92
Some years after the 1888 General Conference, Ellen White explained the
indispensability of both justification and sanctification:

“Righteousness within is testified to by righteousness without . . . The
righteousness by which we are justified is imputed; the righteousness by which
we are sanctified is imparted. The first is our title to heaven, the second is our
fitness for heaven.” Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, June 4, 1895

The Third Angel’s Message

Some have misunderstood what Ellen White meant when she wrote that the
message of righteousness by faith is the third angel’s message in verity:

“Several have written to me, inquiring if the message of justification by faith is
the third angel's message, and I have answered, "It is the third angel's message,
in verity." Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, April 1, 1890

If the third angel’s message is righteousness by faith in verity, we need to study
the third angel’s message to see how this is so. What does the third angel’s
message say?

Revelation 14:9-12

“Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships
the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand,
10 he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out

full strength into the cup of His indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and
brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. 11
And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest
day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the
mark of his name. 12 Here is the [1] patience of the saints, here are those who [2]
keep the commandments of God and the [3] faith of Jesus."


                                                                         Page 372 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
One wonders what relationship this passage about the beast, his image and his
mark has with righteousness by faith? It certainly is not merely describing
forensic justification!

It is common for many Adventist scholars to define righteousness by faith in
the same way that Martin Luther defined it, that is, as the imputation of Christ’s
righteousness to those who trust in Jesus. If this is true, then Martin Luther
preached the third angel’s message. However, we know that Luther did not
proclaim the third angel’s message because the first angel’s message in its
entirety was not preached until after 1798. Furthermore, the second angel’s
message was not preached until 1844.This means that righteousness by faith
as it is defined in the context of the third angel’s message must have a deeper
dimension and go beyond the concept that was taught by Luther and the
Reformers. In other words, it is righteousness by faith in a special historical
context.

Regarding the first angel’s message Ellen White explained:

“No such message [the first angel’s message] has ever been given in past ages.
Paul, as we have seen, did not preach it; he pointed his brethren into the then
far-distant future for the coming of the Lord. The Reformers did not proclaim it.
Martin Luther placed the judgment about three hundred years in the future from
his day. But since 1798 the book of Daniel has been unsealed, knowledge of the
prophecies has increased, and many have proclaimed the solemn message of the
judgment near.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 356

Ellen White does not state that the third angel’s message contains the message
of righteousness by faith but rather it is righteousness by faith. Righteousness
by faith is not one element of the third angel’s message but rather permeates
it all!

There are three key words in Revelation 14:12 that identify the faithful
remnant: they have the patience of the saints, they keep the commandments
of God and have the faith of Jesus. These three concepts must be understood in

                                                                         Page 373 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the context of verses 9-11. Where else do we find the beast, his image and his
mark? The answer is, Revelation 13:11-18.

According to Revelation 13:11-18 there is a time coming when a great trial will
come upon God’s people. God’s faithful children who refuse to worship the
beast and his image and receive the mark will not be able to buy or sell and
they will eventually come under the sentence of death. What kind of persons
must they be to go successfully through this trial? They must have genuine faith
in the surety, a faithful relationship that will withstand hunger, thirst, bondage
and the sentence of death.

What will be the motivating force for keeping the commandments? Will they
be legalists? No. This is where the faith of Jesus comes in. What is the faith of
Jesus? Is it faith in Jesus or the faith that Jesus had?

“The third angel's message is the proclamation of the commandments of God and
the faith of Jesus Christ. The commandments of God have been proclaimed, but the
faith of Jesus Christ has not been proclaimed by Seventh-day Adventists as of
equal importance, the law and the gospel going hand in hand. I cannot find
language to express this subject in its fullness. "The faith of Jesus." It is talked of,
but not understood. What constitutes the faith of Jesus that belongs to the third
angel's message? Jesus becoming our sin-bearer that He might become our sin-
pardoning Savior. He was treated as we deserve to be treated. He came to our
world and took our sins that we might take His righteousness. And faith in the
ability of Christ to save us amply and fully and entirely is the faith of Jesus.
Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume 3, p. 172

I believe that it is the same faith that Jesus had. And what was that faith like?
We must go to the cross to understand the reason:

“Upon Christ as our substitute and surety was laid the iniquity of us all. He was
counted a transgressor, that He might redeem us from the condemnation of the
law. The guilt of every descendant of Adam was pressing upon His heart. The
wrath of God against sin, the terrible manifestation of His displeasure because of

                                                                         Page 374 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
iniquity, filled the soul of His Son with consternation. All His life Christ had been
publishing to a fallen world the good news of the Father's mercy and pardoning
love. Salvation for the chief of sinners was His theme. But now with the terrible
weight of guilt He bears, He cannot see the Father's reconciling face. The
withdrawal of the divine countenance from the Savior in this hour of supreme
anguish pierced His heart with a sorrow that can never be fully understood by
man. So great was this agony that His physical pain was hardly felt. Satan with
his fierce temptations wrung the heart of Jesus. The Savior could not see through
the portals of the tomb. Hope did not present to Him His coming forth from
the grave a conqueror, or tell Him of the Father's acceptance of the sacrifice. He
feared that sin was so offensive to God that Their separation was to be eternal.
Christ felt the anguish that the sinner will feel when mercy shall no longer plead
for the guilty race. It was the sense of sin, bringing the Father's wrath upon Him
as man's substitute, that made the cup He drank so bitter, and broke the heart of
the Son of God.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 753
So what sustained Jesus if He felt forsaken by the Father as He went through
the time of trouble? Satan was attempting to shake the faith of Jesus in His
Father. He was attempting to convince Jesus that the load of sin that He bore
was so great that there could be no forgiveness for Him or for those who He
came to save.

“Amid the awful darkness, apparently forsaken of God, Christ had drained the
last dregs in the cup of human woe. In those dreadful hours He had relied upon
the evidence of His Father's acceptance heretofore given Him. He was
acquainted with the character of His Father; He understood His justice, His mercy,
and His great love. By faith He rested in Him whom it had ever been His joy to
obey. And as in submission He committed Himself to God, the sense of the loss of
His Father's favor was withdrawn. By faith, Christ was victor.” Ellen G. White, The
Desire of Ages, p. 756
During the time of trouble God’s people will feel similarly to Jesus. Satan will
make them feel that their sins are so great that they cannot be forgiven. But
they will conquer because they will have the same faith that Jesus had.


                                                                         Page 375 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The End Time Generation

Revelation has four portraits of the 144,000 each with its own particular
emphasis:

    Revelation 7:1-8: The emphasis falls on the sealing of the 144,000 for
     their protection during the time of trouble. After the time of trouble, they
     will sing jubilant enthusiasm because victory has been gained
     (Revelation 7:9-17).
    Revelation 14:1-5: The emphasis falls on the character of the 144,000.
    Revelation 15:2-4: The emphasis falls on the victory of the 144,000 over
     the beast, his image, his mark and the number of his name.
    Revelation 19:1-9: The heavenly celebration of the 144,000.

Comments on Revelation 6:17

Revelation 6:14-16 describes the second coming of Jesus and Revelation 6:17
ends with a question:

“For the great day of His wrath has come and who shall be able to stand?”

What does the word ‘stand’ mean? In several verses of the New Testament, the
word appears as an antonym of ‘fall’. Examples:

    Mark 3:24, 25: A kingdom divided against itself cannot stand.
    John 8:44: Satan at the beginning did not stand in the truth.
    1 Corinthians 10:12: He that thinks that he stands let him take heed
     lest he fall.
    Ephesians 6:11-13
      “Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the
      wiles of the devil. 12 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but
      against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of

                                                                         Page 376 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. 13
      Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to
      withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.”
    2 Timothy 2:19
      “Nevertheless the solid foundation of God stands, having this seal: "The
      Lord knows those who are His," and, "Let everyone who names the name of
      Christ* depart from iniquity."
    Luke 21:36

      “Watch therefore, and pray always that you may be counted worthy to
      escape all these things that will come to pass, and to stand before the Son
      of Man.”

The answer to the pointed question in Revelation 6:17 is in the following
chapter. The 144,000 will be able to stand!

Revelation 7:1-8 describes the sealing of the 144,000 but does not bring to
view their character:

Revelation 7:1-4

“After these things I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth,
holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth,
on the sea, or on any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the east,
having the seal of the living God and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels
to whom it was granted to harm the earth and the sea, saying, "Do not harm the
earth, the sea, or the trees till we have sealed the servants of our God on their
foreheads." And I heard the number of those who were sealed. One hundred and
forty-four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel were sealed.”

The background for these verses is in Ezekiel 9 where God’s own professed
people were committing abominations. God only sealed on the forehead those
who sighed and cried because of the abominations that were being committed


                                                                         Page 377 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
in the city. Those who sighed and cried are referred to in Revelation 7 as ‘the
servants of our God’.

Revelation 14:1-5 describes the sterling character of the 144,000:

Revelation 14:1-5

“Then I looked, and behold, a Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one
hundred and forty-four thousand, having His Father's name written on their
foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven, like the voice of many waters, and
like the voice of loud thunder. And I heard the sound of harpists playing their
harps. They sang as it were a new song [they went through the experience of
Israel at the Red Sea] before the throne, before the four living creatures, and the
elders; and no one could learn that song except the hundred and forty-four
thousand who were redeemed from the earth. These are the ones who were not
defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are the ones who follow the Lamb
wherever He goes. These were redeemed from among men, being first fruits to
God and to the Lamb. And in their mouth was found no deceit, for they are
without fault before the throne of God.”

    They have the Father’s name on their foreheads (name is an indication
     of character and the forehead is where the frontal lobe is located).
    They sing a new song that only they could learn.
    They are alive during the great tribulation and face a death decree.
    They follow the Lamb wherever He goes.
    They were not defiled with women because they are virgins.
    There was no deceit in their mouths.
    They were redeemed from the earth as first-fruits.
    They are without fault before the throne of God.




                                                                         Page 378 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Same Question in Other Places

Revelation 6:17 is not the only place where the question is asked and
answered. There are other texts, and in each case, the answer highlights the
sterling conduct of the faithful.

Joel 2:1-10 describes the second coming of Jesus with the armies of heaven
followed by the same question as Revelation 6:17.

Joel 2:11

“The LORD gives voice before His army, for His camp is very great; for strong is the
One who executes His word. For the day of the LORD is great and very terrible,
who can endure it?”

The following verses give the answer to the question in terms of the Day of
Atonement:

“Now, therefore," says the LORD, "Turn to Me with all your heart, with fasting,
with weeping, and with mourning." So rend your heart, and not your garments;
return to the LORD your God, for He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and
of great kindness; and He relents from doing harm. Who knows if He will turn and
relent, and leave a blessing behind Him—a grain offering and a drink offering for
the LORD your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call a sacred
assembly; Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders,
gather the children and nursing babes; let the bridegroom go out from his
chamber, and the bride from her dressing room. Let the priests, who minister to
the LORD, weep between the porch and the altar; let them say, "Spare Your
people, O LORD, and do not give Your heritage to reproach, that the nations
should rule over them. Why should they say among the peoples, 'Where is their
God?'




                                                                         Page 379 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
A Work Outside the Sanctuary

The congregation had a role to play on the Day of Atonement. While the High
Priest was cleansing inside the sanctuary the people were to carry on a work of
soul cleansing outside:
    The soon coming Day of Atonement was announced by the sound of the
     trumpets (the Millerite movement in 1844 for the judgment of the dead
     and the loud cry of Revelation 18:1-5 for the judgment of the living).
    All Israelites were required to assemble at the sanctuary to follow the
     work of the High Priest—it was a holy convocation (Leviticus 23:21, 24,
     27).
    While the high priest was cleansing the sanctuary, the people gathered
     outside afflicting their souls (Leviticus 16:29, 30, 23:27). The closer
     we come to Jesus the more sinful we will see ourselves and the more we
     will want to reflect his image (Hebrews 12:1-3). The further we are from
     Jesus the better we will feel about ourselves.
    The congregation fasted (Isaiah 58; Joel 2:11ff).
      “The true fasting which should be recommended to all, is abstinence from
      every stimulating kind of food, and the proper use of wholesome simple
      food, which God has provided in abundance.” Ellen G. White, Medical
      Ministry, p. 283
      Isaiah 58:6-7
      “Is this not the fast that I have chosen: To loose the bonds of wickedness, to
      undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break
      every yoke? 7 Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, and that you
      bring to your house the poor who are cast out; when you see the naked, that
      you cover him, and not hide yourself from your own flesh?”




                                                                         Page 380 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
    The congregation abstained from work because their minds needed to
     be focused on the work of the high priest (Leviticus 16:29, 30; 23:28).
    As the high priest blotted out the sins of the people from the sanctuary,
     the people were to blot out sin from their soul temple through the
     power of the Holy Spirit. The message is that we must be cleansing the
     soul temple here while Jesus is cleansing the heavenly temple there
     because Jesus will not cleanse from there what we have not cleansed
     here through the power of the Holy Spirit.
    At the end of the Day there were only two groups: Those who remained
     in Babylon and those who came out. Leviticus 23 explains that those who
     did not afflict their souls were to be cut off from the congregation and
     destroyed (Leviticus 23:28-30). The meaning of cut off: No longer a
     member of God’s people (Genesis 17:14; Exodus 12:15; Leviticus 20:3;
     Numbers 15:30, 31; Psalm 34:16; 37:28; 109:13, 15.

Isaiah 33:14-16

Verse 14: The question:

“The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness has seized the hypocrites: "Who
among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with
everlasting burnings?"

Verses 15, 16: The answer underlines the holy lifestyle of those who will
dwell in the presence of God:

“He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, he who despises the gain of
oppressions, who gestures with his hands, refusing bribes, who stops his ears
from hearing of bloodshed, and shuts his eyes from seeing evil: 16 He will dwell
on high; his place of defense will be the fortress of rocks; bread will be given him,
his water will be sure.”




                                                                         Page 381 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Psalm 15

Verse 1: The question:

“LORD, who may abide in Your tabernacle [the sanctuary]? Who may dwell in
Your holy hill [Zion]?

Verses 2-5: The answer highlights the holy lifestyle of those who will dwell
in the presence of God:

“He who walks uprightly, and works righteousness, and speaks the truth in his
heart; 3 he who does not backbite with his tongue, nor does evil to his neighbor,
nor does he take up a reproach against his friend; 4 In whose eyes a vile person is
despised, but he honors those who fear the LORD; he who swears to his own hurt
and does not change [does not break his promises]; 5 he who does not put out
his money at usury, nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does
these things shall never be moved [who shall be able to stand?]”

Psalm 24:3-6

Verse 3: The question

“Who may ascend into the hill of the LORD? Or who may stand in His holy place?”

Verses 4-6: The answer highlights the holy lifestyle of those will dwell in the
presence of God:

“He who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up his soul to an
idol, nor sworn deceitfully. 5 He shall receive blessing from the LORD, and
righteousness from the God of his salvation. 6 This is Jacob, the generation of
those who seek Him, who seek Your face.”




                                                                         Page 382 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Nahum 1:6, 7

Verse 6: The question:

“Who can stand before His indignation? And who can endure the fierceness of
His anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by Him.

Verse 7: The answer:

The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and He knows those who
trust in Him.”

Malachi 3:1-3

“Behold, I send My messenger, and he will prepare the way before Me and the
Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to His temple, even the Messenger of
the covenant, in whom you delight. “Behold, He is coming," says the Lord of hosts.
2 "But who can endure the day of His coming and who can stand when He

appears? For He is like a refiner's fire and like launderers' soap. 3 He will sit as a
refiner and a purifier of silver; He will purify the sons of Levi, and purge them
as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness.”

Ellen White applied this passage to the final generation:

“Says the prophet: "Who may abide the day of His coming? And who shall stand
when He appeareth? for He is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap: and He
shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and He shall purify the sons of Levi, and
purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in
righteousness." Malachi 3:2, 3. Those who are living upon the earth when the
intercession of Christ shall cease in the sanctuary above are to stand in the
sight of a holy God without a mediator. Their robes must be spotless, their
characters must be purified from sin by the blood of sprinkling. Through the
grace of God and their own diligent effort, they must be conquerors in the
battle with evil. While the investigative judgment is going forward in heaven,
while the sins of penitent believers are being removed from the sanctuary, there


                                                                         Page 383 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
is to be a special work of purification, of putting away of sin, among God's people
upon earth. This work is more clearly presented in the messages of Revelation 14.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 425

Ellen White Quotations

“Those who are distrustful of self, who are humbling themselves before God
and purifying their souls by obeying the truth--these are receiving the heavenly
mold and preparing for the seal of God in their foreheads. When the decree goes
forth and the stamp is impressed, their character will remain pure and spotless
for eternity. Now is the time to prepare. The seal of God will never be placed
upon the forehead of an impure man or woman. It will never be placed upon the
forehead of the ambitious, world-loving man or woman. It will never be placed
upon the forehead of men or women of false tongues or deceitful hearts. All
who receive the seal must be without spot before God--candidates for heaven.”
Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 288
“Not one of us will ever receive the seal of God while our characters have one spot
or stain upon them. It is left with us to remedy the defects in our characters, to
cleanse the soul temple of every defilement. Then the latter rain will fall upon
us as the early rain fell upon the disciples . . . .” Ellen G. White, Maranatha, p. 240
“All who have truly repented of sin, and by faith claimed the blood of Christ as
their atoning sacrifice, have had pardon entered against their names in the
books of heaven; as they have become partakers of the righteousness of Christ,
and their characters are found to be in harmony with the law of God, their sins
will be blotted out, and they themselves will be accounted worthy of eternal life.
The Lord declares, by the prophet Isaiah: "I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy
transgressions for Mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins." Isaiah 43:25.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 483
“Now, while our great High Priest is making the atonement for us, we should seek
to become perfect in Christ. Not even by a thought could our Savior be brought
to yield to the power of temptation. Satan finds in human hearts some point where

                                                                         Page 384 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
he can gain a foothold; some sinful desire is cherished, by means of which his
temptations assert their power. But Christ declared of Himself: "The prince of this
world cometh, and hath nothing in Me." John 14:30. Satan could find nothing in
the Son of God that would enable him to gain the victory. He had kept His Father's
commandments, and there was no sin in Him that Satan could use to his
advantage. This is the condition in which those must be found who shall
stand in the time of trouble.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 623
“Those who are living upon the earth when the intercession of Christ shall cease
in the sanctuary above are to stand in the sight of a holy God without a mediator.
Their robes must be spotless, their characters must be purified from sin by the
blood of sprinkling. Through the grace of God and their own diligent effort they
must be conquerors in the battle with evil. While the investigative judgment is
going forward in heaven, while the sins of penitent believers are being removed
from the sanctuary, there is to be a special work of purification, of putting away
of sin, among God's people upon earth. This work is more clearly presented in
the messages of Revelation 14. When this work shall have been accomplished, the
followers of Christ will be ready for His appearing.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy p. 425

Daniel and His Three Friends
The three young friends of Daniel are examples of the final generation. In fact,
the story of the three young men will be fulfilled on a global scale in the book
of Revelation. The third angel’s message is the globalization of this story
because the same elements are present in both: a beast, an image, a command
to worship and a death decree against those who fail to comply. Ellen White
linked this story with the crisis over the Sabbath in the end time:

“An idol sabbath has been set up, as the golden image was set up in the plains of
Dura. And as Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, issued a decree that all who
would not bow down and worship this image should be killed, so a proclamation
will be made that all who will not reverence the Sunday institution will be


                                                                         Page 385 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
punished with imprisonment and death.” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases,
vol. 14, p. 91

How did Daniel’s three friends reveal that they had experienced righteousness
by faith? The answer is that their faithfulness exhibited their faith. The three
young men revealed their trust and allegiance to Christ by their faithfulness
even in the face of death:

“The three Hebrews were called upon to confess Christ in the face of the burning
fiery furnace. It cost them something to do this, for their lives were at stake. These
youth, imbued with the Holy Spirit, declared to the whole kingdom of Babylon
their faith--that He whom they worshiped was the only true and living God. The
demonstration of their faith on the plain of Dura was a most eloquent
presentation of their principles.” Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, July 12,
1904

Because of their faith, Jesus Himself delivered the three Hebrew worthies.
Significantly the word ‘deliver’ is used in three main contexts in the book of
Daniel: Daniel 3, Daniel 6 and Daniel 12:1, so these chapters must bear a close
relationship. Let’s examine the use of the word ‘deliver’ in Daniel 3.
This story illustrates what will occur when the civil power of the United States
violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the Constitution.

Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, built an image and commanded all the very
important persons to bow down and worship it. When the music sounded, three
young Hebrews refused, so the king called them into his presence and gave
them another chance and challenged the ability of their God to deliver them:

“Now if you are ready at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre,
and psaltery, in symphony with all kinds of music, and you fall down and worship
the image which I have made, good! However, if you do not worship, you shall be
cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace and who is the god
who will deliver you from my hands?" (Daniel 3:15)


                                                                         Page 386 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Hebrew worthies did not hesitate to respond:
“Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego answered and said to the king, "O
Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. 17 If that is the
case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace,
and He will deliver us from your hand, O king. 18 But if not, let it be known to you,
O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which
you have set up.” (Daniel 3:16-18)
At this, the expression on the face of the king changed:
“Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury, and the expression on his face changed
toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego. He spoke and commanded that they
heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated.” (Daniel 3:19)
Ellen White described the expression on the king’s face:
“Satanic attributes made his countenance appear as the countenance of a
demon.” Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 4, p. 1169
The king then cast the three young men into the furnace. Suddenly the king saw
four persons in the furnace and the fourth looked like the Son of God:

“Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished; and he rose in haste and spoke,
saying to his counselors, "Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the
fire?" They answered and said to the king, "True, O king." 25 “Look!" he answered,
"I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire; and they are not hurt, and
the form of the fourth is like the Son of God.” (Daniel 3:24, 25)

Many Bible versions state that the fourth looked like the son of the gods. The
translators wondered how a pagan king could know what the Son of God looked
like so they assumed that the king thought that he was merely one of the sons
of the pagan gods. However, Ellen White explained:

“The Hebrew captives had told Nebuchadnezzar of Christ, the Redeemer that was
to come, and from the description thus given, the king recognized the form of the



                                                                         Page 387 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
fourth in the fiery furnace as the Son of God.” Ellen G. White, The Youth’s
Instructor, April 26, 1904

There is another very important detail in the story. Nebuchadnezzar recognized
that the Son of God that delivered the three young men was the Angel:

“Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abed-Nego, who sent His Angel and delivered His servants who trusted in Him,
and they have frustrated the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they
should not serve nor worship any god except their own God!” (Daniel 3:28)

At the conclusion of the story, the king extolled the God of the three young men
because He was able to deliver them from the furnace:

“Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, or language which speaks
anything amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego shall be
cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made an ash heap; because there is no other
God who can deliver like this." (Daniel 3:29)
Thus, the Son of God is the Angel and the Angel is God. The Angel that delivered
the young men was none less than Michael, another name for Jesus Christ!
Hebrews 11 underlines the fact that the three young men quenched the fire
through faith. This indicates that their faith was more than intellectual
assent, more than believing something in their heads, more than a juridical
act of imputation. True faith is exhibited in faithfulness. This is
righteousness by faith in the end time.
Hebrews 11:33-34
“As in the days of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, so in the closing period of
earth's history the Lord will work mightily in behalf of those who stand
steadfastly for the right. He who walked with the Hebrew worthies in the fiery
furnace will be with His followers wherever they are. His abiding presence will
comfort and sustain. In the midst of the time of trouble--trouble such as has not
been since there was a nation--His chosen ones will stand unmoved. Satan with


                                                                         Page 388 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
all the hosts of evil cannot destroy the weakest of God's saints. Angels that excel
in strength will protect them, and in their behalf Jehovah will reveal Himself as a
"God of gods," able to save to the uttermost those who have put their trust in
Him.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 513

Daniel in the Lion’s Den
Another passage that illustrates righteousness by faith in the end time crisis is
the story in Daniel 6. This story is an illustration of the crisis that will come
when the United States government will violate the Free Exercise clause of the
First Amendment.

Whereas Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 3 attempted to establish religion, Darius in
Daniel 6 attempted to forbid its free exercise. As in Daniel 3, the issues were
obedience to God’s Law and worship. The enemies of Daniel could find no
dishonesty in his civil responsibilities so they decided to pursue his obedience
to His God’s Law:
“Then these men said, "We shall not find any charge against this Daniel unless we
find it against him concerning the law of his God." (Daniel 6:5)
Daniel’s enemies prepared a carefully devised scheme to deceive the king into
giving a decree that presumably would lead to Daniel’s death. The king, thinking
that the princes had the well-being of his kingdom in mind, readily signed the
decree:
“So these governors and satraps thronged before the king, and said thus to him:
"King Darius, live forever! 7 All the governors of the kingdom, the administrators
and satraps, the counselors and advisors, have consulted together to establish a
royal statute and to make a firm decree, that whoever petitions any god or man
for thirty days, except you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. 8 Now, O king,
establish the decree and sign the writing, so that it cannot be changed, according
to the law of the Medes and Persians, which does not alter." 9 Therefore King
Darius signed the written decree.” (Daniel 6:6-9)



                                                                         Page 389 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Daniel could have been politically correct by closing his windows and practicing
his religion in private. However, he felt that although one’s religion is personal,
it is never private.

“Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went home. And in his
upper room, with his windows open toward Jerusalem, he knelt down on his
knees three times that day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as was
his custom since early days.” (Daniel 6:10)

When the king discovered that his advisors had deceived him, he did all in his
power to deliver Daniel but his advisors reminded him that the laws of the
Medes and Persians were unchangeable. Daniel’s plight seemed hopeless; it
appeared that he would be ‘cat food’:

“And the king, when he heard these words, was greatly displeased with himself,
and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored till the going down of
the sun to deliver him. 15 Then these men approached the king, and said to the
king, "Know, O king, that it is the law of the Medes and Persians that no decree or
statute which the king establishes may be changed." (Daniel 6:14, 15)

Therefore, the king gave the command to cast Daniel into the lion’s den.
However, just before the king’s servants cast him in, the king spoke to Daniel
and said to him, ‘I hope that your God whom you continually serve will be able
to deliver you because I cannot.’

“So the king gave the command, and they brought Daniel and cast him into the
den of lions. However, the king spoke, saying to Daniel, "Your God, whom you
serve continually, He will deliver you." 17 Then a stone was brought and laid on
the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the
signets of his lords, that the purpose concerning Daniel might not be changed.”

Then the king returned to his palace where there was no music or feasting and
where he suffered insomnia all night:



                                                                         Page 390 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
“Now the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; and no musicians
were brought before him. Also his sleep went from him.” (Daniel 6:18)

The next morning the king rushed to the lion’s den to see if Daniel’s God had
been able to deliver him from the mouths of the lions:

Then the king arose very early in the morning and went in haste to the den of lions.
20 And when he came to the den, he cried out with a lamenting voice to Daniel. The

king spoke, saying to Daniel, "Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God,
whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions?" (Daniel
6:19, 20)

Daniel’s reply to the king’s question is vitally important. He said, ‘my God sent
His Angel and shut the lions’ mouths’. It is tempting to think that this Angel was
the same that delivered the three young Hebrews from the fiery furnace,
Michael:

“Then Daniel said to the king, "O king, live forever! 22 My God sent His angel and
shut the lions' mouths, so that they have not hurt me, because I was found
innocent before Him; and also, O king, I have done no wrong before you." 23
Now the king was exceedingly glad for him, and commanded that they should take
Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no injury
whatever was found on him, because he believed in his God.” (Daniel 6:21-23)

After Daniel deliverance, the king gave a new decree where he used the word
‘deliver’ twice:

“Then King Darius wrote: To all peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all
the earth: Peace be multiplied to you. 26 I make a decree that in every dominion of
my kingdom men must tremble and fear before the God of Daniel for He is the
living God, and steadfast forever; His kingdom is the one that shall not be
destroyed, and His dominion shall endure to the end. 27 He delivers and rescues,
and He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, who has delivered
Daniel from the power of the lions.” (Daniel 6:25-27)


                                                                         Page 391 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Hebrews 11:33 tells us that Daniel closed the mouths of lions by faith. Daniel’s
faith was more than an intellectual assent, more than believing in something.
It was more than a judicial act by God to impute righteousness. It was the
unfolding of Christ’s righteousness in the practical life. It was putting total
trust in God; it meant trusting in a person without question or doubt even in
the face of death. The definition of faith in Hebrews does not differ from the
definition in other parts of Scripture—the emphasis is simply different. Daniel
exhibited righteousness by faith!

Paul and James

At this point it might be well to ask: Does Paul’s definition of righteousness by
faith conflict with that of James? Did Paul believe that man is made righteous
by a forensic act of God while James believed that man is made righteous by a
holy life? Not at all! Faith and works are a package deal. Neither can exist
without the other. In order to be genuine, faith must be active, dynamic. Faith
is an action word! Paul was looking at the internal motivating force for works
and James was looking at the external fruit of genuine faith. Paul was speaking
of the root and James was looking at the fruit. True faith is an uncompromising
trust in Jesus that translates into obedient faithfulness. Said another way, true
faith is faithful.

James presented two examples of faith, Abraham and Rahab. Abraham acted
on his trust/faith in God by obeying Him. First, he was willing to reveal his faith
by obeying God in leaving Ur of the Chaldeans and then Haran. Then he was
even willing to obey God at the cost of the life of the son of the promise.

On the other hand, we have Rahab the harlot. This woman was willing to risk
her very life when she received the spies, hid them and sent them out a different
way. Along with James, the apostle Paul extolled the faith of this woman in
receiving the spies, hiding them and sending them away (see Hebrews 11:31).

“The inhabitants of the city, terrified and suspicious, were constantly on the alert,
and the messengers were in great danger. They were, however, preserved by

                                                                         Page 392 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Rahab, a woman of Jericho, at the peril of her own life. In return for her kindness
they gave her a promise of protection when the city should be taken.” Ellen G.
White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 482, 483
The heroes and heroines of Hebrews 11 did not merely believe in something.
They believed in someone. They were acting in trust upon God’s word. Their
faith was made complete by their works. The emphasis in Hebrews 11 is not
primarily upon imputed righteousness but rather upon the faithful, obedient
life that flows from a saving relationship with Christ. True faith always leads to
faithfulness. Faithless works will not save a person and a workless faith will not
save him either. Faith is the invisible side of works and works are the visible
side of faith. Faith is the internal propelling force and works are the external
manifestation. The heroes and heroines of Hebrews 11 not only believed
something but also did something:

   Abel offered a sacrifice.
   Enoch pleased God.
   Noah built an ark.
   Abraham left Ur not knowing where he was going.
   Abraham offered up his own son.
   Isaac and Jacob blessed their offspring.
   Moses was hidden by his sister.
   Moses refused to be called Pharaoh’s son.
   Moses left Egypt.
   Moses kept the Passover.
   Israel passed the Red Sea.
   Israel marched around Jericho.
   Rahab hid the spies.
Notice the action words in the following passage:

Hebrews 11:34-40

“And what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak
and Samson and Jephthah, also of David and Samuel and the prophets: 33 who
through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises,

                                                                         Page 393 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
stopped the mouths of lions, 34 quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge
of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in battle,
turned to flight the armies of the aliens. 35 Women received their dead raised
to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might
obtain a better resurrection. 36 Still others had trial of mockings and scourgings,
yes, and of chains and imprisonment. 37 They were stoned, they were sawn in
two, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in
sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented 38 of whom the
world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens and
caves of the earth. 39 And all these, having obtained a good testimony through
faith, did not receive the promise, 40 God having provided something better for us
that they should not be made perfect apart from us.”

This is the emphasis of the third angel’s message. If you don’t worship the
beast or his image you will be under a sentence of death just like Daniel and his
three friends. An implicit trust in God will be needed in order to remain faithful.

Daniel 12:1

"At that time [1] Michael shall stand up [probation will close], the great prince
who stands watch [He will protect His people] over the sons of your people; and
[2] there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation,
even to that time [the trial over the beast, his image and his mark]. And at
that time your people shall be delivered [as Daniel and his three friends],
everyone who is found written in the book.”

After the close of probation God’s people will go through the same experience
as Daniel and his three friends but on a global scale. The faith of God’s people
will be exhibited by their faithfulness and loyalty to God. Faith without
faithfulness is not really faith.

Sometimes Adventist scholars are soteriological dualists and at the same
time, anthropological monists. They teach that man is saved by faith alone
without works, and almost in the same breath they say that the body alone

                                                                         Page 394 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
cannot live without the spirit. James emphasizes that as the body without the
spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead!

So, is man justified by faith or by works? How do we reconcile these two? The
only way is showing that James is teaching that faith is shown by faithfulness
and obedience. Justification is exhibited in sanctification. Faith is revealed in
Abraham being willing to slay his own son and Rahab being willing to exhibit
her loyalty to God even to the point of death.

It is worthwhile for everyone to read the chapter in The Great Controversy
titled, “The Time of Trouble”. This chapter explains, in luxury of detail the
preparation that God’s people will need to pass through the time of trouble.
They will need the absolute assurance that their sins have been forgiven
(justification) and this assurance will lead them to be faithful. Notably, Ellen
White begins the chapter by quoting Daniel 12:1. Here are a couple of her
statements:

“As Satan accuses the people of God on account of their sins, the Lord permits him
to try them to the uttermost. Their confidence in God, their faith and firmness,
will be severely tested. As they review the past, their hopes sink; for in their whole
lives they can see little good. They are fully conscious of their weakness and
unworthiness. Satan endeavors to terrify them with the thought that their cases
are hopeless, that the stain of their defilement will never be washed away. He
hopes so to destroy their faith that they will yield to his temptations and turn
from their allegiance to God.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 618
“Those who exercise but little faith now, are in the greatest danger of falling
under the power of satanic delusions and the decree to compel the conscience. And
even if they endure the test they will be plunged into deeper distress and anguish
in the time of trouble, because they have never made it a habit to trust in God.
The lessons of faith which they have neglected they will be forced to learn under
a terrible pressure of discouragement.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.
622



                                                                         Page 395 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Armor

The garment of Christ’s righteousness is also described as armor because the
final remnant must serve as Christ’s army in the final battle against evil. To have
the armor is to be covered with Christ (Romans 13:11-14).

“Clad in the armor of Christ's righteousness, the church is to enter upon her
final conflict. ‘Fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with
banners’ (Song of Solomon 6:10), she is to go forth into all the world, conquering
and to conquer. The darkest hour of the church's struggle with the powers of evil
is that which immediately precedes the day of her final deliverance. But none
who trust in God need fear for ‘when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm
against the wall,’ God will be to his church ‘a refuge from the storm’ (Isaiah 25:4).
In that day the righteous only are promised deliverance.” Ellen G. White, The
Review and Herald, July 1, 1915
“When the religion of Christ is most held in contempt, when His law is most
despised then should our zeal be the warmest and our courage and firmness the
most unflinching. To stand in defense of truth and righteousness when the
majority forsake us, to fight the battles of the Lord when champions are few—
this will be our test. At this time we must gather warmth from the coldness of
others, courage from their cowardice, and loyalty from their treason.” Ellen G.
White, Testimonies for the Church, vol.5, p. 136

The Book of Ephesians

The book of Ephesians illustrates the experience of true believers. There are
three key words that give us the structure for the book. We first sit with Jesus
and rest in what He has done (Ephesians 2:4-6). Once we are seated with Jesus
in heavenly places (justification), we walk with Jesus (Ephesians 2:10; 4:17-19;
5:2-5) in newness of life on earth (sanctification) and this gives us strength to
stand (Ephesians 6:11, 13, 14) for Jesus when we are attacked by the enemy.
Only as we sit with Jesus can we walk with Him and in the end stand and be
faithful in our struggle against the power of the devil.


                                                                         Page 396 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
How?

Immediately after listing the honor roll of faith, the apostle Paul described the
secret of their victorious faith:

Hebrews 12:1-2

“Therefore we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let
us lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us
run with endurance the race that is set before us, 2 looking unto Jesus, the
author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured
the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne
of God.”

Ellen White also addressed the secrets of victory:

“A deadly spiritual malady is upon the church. Its members are wounded by
Satan but they will not look to the cross of Christ, as the Israelites looked to the
brazen serpent, that they may live. The world has so many claims upon them
that they have not time to look to the cross of Calvary long enough to see its
glory or to feel its power. When they now and then catch a glimpse of the self-
denial and self-dedication which the truth demands, it is unwelcome, and they
turn their attention in another direction, that they may the sooner forget it.”
Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 202
“All true obedience comes from the heart. It was heart work with Christ. And if
we consent, He will so identify Himself with our thoughts and aims, so blend our
hearts and minds into conformity to His will, that when obeying Him we shall be
but carrying out our own impulses. The will, refined and sanctified, will find
its highest delight in doing His service. When we know God, as it is our privilege
to know Him, our life will be a life of continual obedience. Through an
appreciation of the character of Christ, through communion with God, sin will
become hateful to us.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 668




                                                                         Page 397 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
By beholding Christ, we are changed (2 Corinthians 3:18). As our attention is
fixed upon Him through persistent prayer, intensive Bible study and by
ministering to Him by acts of love to a hurting humanity, we become like Him.

Is it Possible?

Jude 14-15

“Now Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied about these men also, saying,
"Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of His saints, 15 to execute judgment
on all, to convict all who are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds
which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which
ungodly sinners have spoken against Him."

Genesis 5:24

“And Enoch walked with God; and he was not, for God took him.”
Hebrews 11:5-6

“By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, ‘and was not found,
because God had taken him’; for before he was taken he had this testimony, that
he pleased God.”

John 8:29

“And He who sent Me is with Me. The Father has not left Me alone, for I always
do those things that please Him."

    Turn away your senses from contemplating worldly things
    Turn your eyes upon Jesus, his perfection, His sacrifice for sin and
     power will flow from the cross.




                                                                         Page 398 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The Challenge Ahead

“The work, which the church has failed to do in a time of peace and prosperity,
she will have to do in a terrible crisis under most discouraging, forbidding
circumstances. The warnings that worldly conformity has silenced or withheld
must be given under the fiercest opposition from enemies of the faith. And at
that time the superficial, conservative class, whose influence has steadily retarded
the progress of the work, will renounce the faith and take their stand with its
avowed enemies, toward whom their sympathies have long been tending.
These apostates will then manifest the bitterest enmity, doing all in their power
to oppress and malign their former brethren and to excite indignation against
them. This day is just before us. The members of the church will individually be
tested and proved. They will be placed in circumstances where they will be
forced to bear witness for the truth. Many will be called to speak before councils
and in courts of justice, perhaps separately and alone. The experience, which
would have helped them in this emergency, they have neglected to obtain and
their souls are burdened with remorse for wasted opportunities and neglected
privileges.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 463




                                                                         Page 399 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                                                                         Page 400 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
                       ANCHOR SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
        “FROM THE CLOSE OF PROBATION TO THE NEW EARTH:
             A STUDY OF REVELATION CHAPTERS 15 TO 22”
                         by Pastor Stephen Bohr



   Lesson #24 – The River Dragon: Its Meaning in Scripture
                    S. Douglas Waterhouse

               Andrews University, Berrien Springs, Michigan

      It long has been known that all cosmic sources of waters were conceived,
in ancient Near Eastern mythological imagery, as dragons.1 Given this type of
personification of water bodies in nature, it is easy to understand how ancient
man looked upon winding rivers as twisting serpent-monsters.2 Overflowing
flood waters, stretching out from a raging river torrent, added a further
confirming touch to the imagery. Hence, the deluge monster, referred to in
cuneiform literature as Abubu, is conceived not merely as a serpent, but as a
dragon possessing wings. 3 Can this not be the background for the imagery
found in Isaiah 8:7-8? ‘The king of Assyria ad all his glory’ are likened to an
overflowing flood of the (Euphrates) river which ‘will sweep on into Judah. . .
reaching even to the neck.’ This river that ‘will rise over all its channels and go

1 William F. Albright, Archeology and the Religion of Israel (Baltimore, 1956), p. 149.
2 See for example the ancient Mesopotamian seal impression which pictures a river as a
snake in F. S. Bodenheimer, Animal and Man in Bible Lands: Figures and Plates (Leiden,
1972), p. 33, fig. 19.6.
3 Albright, Archeology, p. 217, n. 68; CAD, sub Abubu.

                                                                         Page 401 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
over all its banks,’ seemingly is also a river with ‘outspread wings’. If the above
imagery is accepted, that which is being described is not simply an up-coming
confrontation between Assyria and Judah, but a cosmic confrontation which
will take place between the dragon and Immanuel (vs. 8), who is supernaturally
described, in 9:6, as the future ruler of Judah.4

       Daniel 9:26, 27 invokes the identical imagery. In vs. 26 it is ‘a flood’ which
will sweep into Judah, causing destruction to both the city (Jerusalem) and her
sanctuary/temple. As in the Isaiah passage, the flood is to be understood in a
figurative sense, for the in-coming waters is a human tide, consisting of ‘the
people of the leader who will come.’ The most striking parallel is found in vs.
27 in the phrase ‘upon the wing of abominations is one who desolates.’ The
outstretched (dragon?) wing is once more brought into a confrontation
situation with the One who is supernaturally endowed; an Anointed-One who
champions the covenant (vs. 27)5


4 Mary K. Wakeman (God’s battle with the Monster, A Study in Biblical Imagery (Leiden,
1973), p. 129), points out that the head, that which is above the neck, and so kept clear of the
engulfing flood (Is 8:8), is ‘the remnant that will return’ of Is 10:21; cf. Is 43:2. Edwin M. Good
(Irony in the Old Testament [London, 1965], pp. 149-150) draws attention to the contrast,
in the same passage (Is 8:6-8) between the ‘waters of Shiloh, which flow gently’ and the
‘waters of the river’ which will sweep away the nation of Judah. On the controversial subject
of Immanuel, may it simply be observed that Is 7:14 is a prophecy concerning a child,
Immanuel, whose birth and growth (7:14-16) constituted a sign to king Ahaz and the people
of Judah, indicating God’s willingness to deliver Jerusalem from its enemies. The prophetic
utterances concerning the child in 9:6 indicate that the child will not be an ordinary human
being. The use of the name Immanuel, ‘God with us, in relationship to the Flood wings does
seem to add weight to that observation. Theodor H. Gaster (in Myth, Legend, and Custom in
the Old Testament [New York, 1969], pp. 568-570) puts forth the thesis that is 7:14-16 is a
reference ‘to an ancient myth which told of the birth of a Wondrous Child as a presage o the
coming Age of Bliss.’ Also compare Is 9:6 with the supernatural role attributed to ancient
Mesopotamian kings, Thorkild Jacobsen in Toward the Image of Tammuz and Other Essays
on Mesopotamian History and Culture (ed. William L. Moran; Cambridge, 1970), pp. 380-
381, n. 51.
5 The imagery of a serpent-dragon vis a vis a Messiah figure is reminiscent of both Gn 3:15
and Rev 12:4-5. The LXX, Theod., and the Vulg., all interpret ‘the wing’ of Daniel 9:27 as the
wing of the temple. Hence the Jerusalem Bible renders ‘. . . and on the wing of the Temple will

                                                                         Page 402 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      In order to come to grips with such exotic imagery, both the mythological
thinking of the ancient world and the Scriptural use of this eastern imagery
need closer analyses. The present article cannot pretend adequately to cover
such a complex subject,6 but brief observations are herewith offered on how
the ancients viewed dragon figures. A few selected Scriptural passages will be
used simply for the purposes of illustrating the usefulness of the comparable
materials.

       For archaic and folk societies, the word ‘earth’ carries a different
connotation than in today’s parlance, oriented as it is toward the factual
findings of scientific discovery. ‘Earth,’ for pre-scientific man, was not thought
of as the world, let alone our modern concept of the planet. For the ancients,
‘earth’ designated a limited sphere, the realm of established order; the realm
which had been organized by divine acts of creation. Beyond lay another realm,
that of the unruly sea, signifying the formless elements which remain
uncreated. Preeminent in this pre-scientific cosmology was the notion that the
earth constitutes a circular plate, surrounded and engulfed by the surging sea
of pre-creation chaos; the uncontrolled Deep/Abyss.7

      Among the Semitic speaking cultures of the ancient Near East two
creatures in particular became the emblems of these two contrasting realms.

be the disastrous abomination. . .’ However, the picture obtained from the MT is that of a
desolator (of the Temple) being carried along upon the wing. I suspect that the phrase in vs.
26: ‘And the people of the leader, he who will come, shall destroy the city and the Sanctuary,
even its end by a flood’ is to be taken as a parallel expression to that which in vs. 27 reads:
‘And upon the wing of abominations is one who makes desolate’ (my own translation).
Significantly, after both phrases comes the theme of sentence and desolations.
6 Ancient mythological cosmologies were varied, and at times conflicting. Religion was never
a simple phenomenon. On the complexity of ancient thought, see for example Mircea Eliade,
Patterns in Comparative Religion (New York, 1963); Theodor H. Gaster, ‘Myth and Story,’
Numen, 1 (1954), 184-212. Two excellent, recent publications dealing with ancient
cosmological speculations are: Luis I. J. Stadelmann, The Hebrew Conception of the World
(Analecta Biblica 39; Rome, 1970); and Wakeman’s God’s Battle.
7 Mircea Eliade, Images & Symbols, Studies in Religious Symbolism (New York, 1969), pp.
37-39; Stadelmann, The Hebrew Conception, pp. 126-127.

                                                                         Page 403 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
That which brought life-giving waters to earth (in the form of springs, river-
fountains, and especially rain) was personified as a bull-figure. As a creature
which brought prosperity to the earth, the bull frequently is seen in glyptic art
bearing on his back a fertility god, a rain-river, who carries with him a sheaf of
lightning bolts. 8 In astro-symbolism the celestial bull was envisioned as the
starry constellation Taurus, the zodiac patron of the fertile spring season. The
bull’s appearance in the sky (especially that of his horns), marked the time
when earth was to be annually rejuvenated.9

      While it was this ‘cosmic bull’ which brought fecundity and life to earth
(which then became garbed in living greenery), a dragon figure, the monster of
pre-creation chaos, personified the infertile, unregenerated sea which lay
beyond earth’s borders. Thought of as encircling the disk of the earth, this
unruly river, ‘the Ocean stream,’10 is found depicted in Greek, Phoenician, and

8 Cf. the comments of W. F. Albright, Archeology, pp. 149-150; Yahweh and the God’s of
Canaan (London, 1968), p. 172. The symbol of the fertility god, Baal, is the horned cap; see
Yigael Yadin, ‘Symbols of Deities at Zinjirli, Carthage and Hazor,’ in Near Eastern Archaeology
in the Twentieth Century, Essays in Honor of Nelson Glueck (ed. James A. Sanders; Garden
City, 1970), p. 214. In one instance, the hero god, pictured in conflict with the serpent-dragon,
is seen as a composite being, the top half anthropomorphic, but the lower half in the form of
an ox/bull; see Z. Yeivin, “A Silver Cup from Tomb 204a at ‘Ain-Samiya,” IEJ, 21 (1971), 79,
fig. 2. For an excellent picture of Baal, with a three-pronged thunderbolt, riding the cosmic
bull, see The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible (New York, 1962), A-D, p. 488.
9 While horoscopic astronomy originated in Babylonia/Chaldea during the Persia reign (539
to 332 B. C.), the concept of a zodiacal constellation arising during each month of the year is
very ancient. In antiquity, the constellation Taurus was imagined to be in the shape of a
triangular head. The Pleiades, denoting the western end of the bull’s long horns, played the
role of indicating the start of the agricultural season. See especially Willy Hartner, ‘The
Earliest History of the Constellations in the Near East and the Motif of the Lion-Bull Combat,’
JNES, 24 (1965), 1-16.
10 Odysseus travels to the land of the sun’s setting, a land wrapped in mist and cloud. It is
here, where the flaming eye of Helios, the sun, never penetrates, that he calls up the spirits
of the dead, and made his way along ‘the Ocean stream’ (Odyssey XI:1-29, 34-43). Herodotus
(cir. 450 B. C.), rejected with ridicule the idea of the river Ocean flowing around the earth,
and laughed at those who drew maps showing the earth rounder than if it had been struck
out with a pair of compasses (The Histories, IV.36, cf. IV.8, II.21, 23). The Hebrew word tbl,
which occurs almost exclusively in poetry, may possibly refer to the round orb (in the sense

                                                                         Page 404 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Egyptian art as a great, cosmic serpent which winds itself around the ‘ordered
realm’. It is the Dragon Ouroboros (the serpent eating its own tail) of the later
magical papyri.11

      Reflecting the concept of the sea as a serpent-river, is the Canaanite
(Ugaritic) text which reads: ‘Chase Sea (Yam) from his throne, River (Nahar)
from the seat of his dominion’ (UT, 68:13). Note how the two terms form a unit
in which one member is used to qualify the other. A striking comparison is
found in Hab 3:8 where again ‘Sea’ is paired with ‘River’.12

                          Was thy wrath against Nahar, Lord?

                              Was thy anger against Nahar,

                             Or thy indignation against Yam,

                        When thou didst ride upon thy horses,

                               Upon thy chariot of victory?

       There was, however, a further ‘hidden’ or ‘inner’ meaning to this
personification of a phenomenon of the natural world—always an outlying
ocean beyond the habitat of humanity. Members of folk societies sought to
understand their local familiar world, and to justify their own earthly
institutions, by seeing themselves as a mirror reflection of what they conceived
was the greater macrocosm. In other words, the macrocosm-the sea-serpent

of orbis Romanus) of the habitable earth; beyond which, presumably, lay the river circulating
around it. Compare the remarks by Stadelmann, The Hebrew Conception, pp. 129-130.
11 See Clark Hopkins, ‘Astrological Interpretations of Some Phoenician Bowls,’ JNES, 24
(1965), 31. Hopkins makes the fascinating observation that the great serpent circling the rim
of the illustrated 7th cent. B. C. silver bowl from Palestrina, Italy, is equivalent to the river
Ocean which adorns the rim of Achilles’s shield in the Iliad. Apparently, the serpent-frame is
an ancient symbolic device for marking off the outer limits of the ordered universe.
12 See the full and valuable discussion by Wakeman, God’s Battle, pp. 92-94, including notes.
The word Nahar, ‘River,’ in Hab 3:8 is to be translated in the singular; reading the final letter
as an enclictic mem. Wakeman also discusses the fact that it is Yam who is personified; Nahar
is but an alternative appellation o Yam.

                                                                         Page 405 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
threatening the earth—served as a blueprint (an architectural plan) for
comprehending the reflected model in miniature, the structure of earthly
institutions, societies, and events. In the microcosm the folk community
constituted the people, the familiar habitat of ‘the earth’. Beyond the limits of
know society lay the figurative sea, the region of the formless. The sun shone
upon the ‘earth’ and the ‘people,’ but beyond, in the nethergloom, lurked the
denizens of outer darkness. This outlying ‘sea’ was a dangerous realm of evil
non-peoples (‘barbarians’), demons, ghosts, and the dead.

      It is to be observed how all of this was perceived. Events transpiring
outside and within the traditional, familiar community were not spoken of
directly, but rather in indirect language. The king, or tribal chief, is referred to
as a reflection of the greater victorious spring-sun. When he marches with his
army to deal with the unsubjected enemy beyond the boundary line, he is the
bearer of light to the wretches in dismal darkness. Furthermore, the victorious
ruler reduces the elements of chaos in order to create stable prosperity. The
contemporary historical situation thus is transfigured to a mythic plain; the
king has become the cosmic hero facing the evil Flooddragon.13

       Illustrations of this figurative ‘indirect language’ abound. When in A. D.
1206 the infamous Mongol ruler Temujin was elevated to be supreme chief over
all the Mongol tribes, he was endowed with the title ‘Chingis Khan.’ Since Khan
means ‘chief’ and Chingis means ‘a large body of water, the ocean,’ one could
erroneously assume the title translates ‘sea chief, ocean ruler,’ or the like. This,
of course, renders little sense. The title is more accurately understood to mean

13 Henri Frankfort, Kingship and the Gods (Chicago, 1948), p. 9. Herkhuf wrote from hinter
Africa to Pepi II, the last pharaoh of the Egyptian Old Kingdom, that he was returning from
the land of Yam, from the land of ghosts. Pharaoh Senusret I, of the early Middle Kingdom,
spoke of traveling southward, past Kush (Nubia), reaching the borders of the earth! A much
later Egyptian vassal ruler (23rd Dynasty) spoke of the rescue of his city Herakleopolis, by
pharaoh Piakhi, as follows: ‘The Nether World has seized me, and I was submerged in
darkness, upon which the light has now shone. . . thou, O mighty king, thou hast expelled the
darkness from me.’ (Walter B. Emery, Lost Land Emerging (New York, 1967), pp. 178, 191,
272.

                                                                         Page 406 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
‘the all-encompassing Lord.’ To the Mongols, Temujin was the Khan, lord, of the
familiar realm, the habitable ‘earth’. Any extension of Temujin’s position as
Khan represented an extension of the realm of fertility and life. Beyond lay the
uncontrolled enemy of dragons which compose and make-up the Chingis.14

        A beautiful example of this double significance (the macrocosm ‘sea’ vis
á vis the microcosm ‘sea’) is found in two types of visual presentations from the
ancient Near East. On the one hand is the celestial portrayal of the cosmic
fertility god (the rain-giver) defeating the Sea-Dragon. As recent studies
indicate, this type of presentation actually represents an enthronement scene;
the defeated Flooddragon making-up the Victor’s throne.15 A Babylonian text
speaks of the victory in this fashion: ‘Tiamat (the Sea-dragon) is the seat of Bel
on which Bel sits’.16 Marduk, the ‘Bel’ (‘Lord’’) of Babylon, in fact is pictured in
a typical stance of assumed lordship. With a crown of feathers, bearing the
accruements of rulership—sword, staff, and ring—Marduk is seen arrayed in

14 The title ‘Dalai Lama’, given to the chief priest prelate of Tibet, also carries the same
nuance; dalai meaning ‘ocean’ and lama ‘lord’. See Owen Lattimore, ‘Chingis Khan and the
Mongul Conquests,’ Scientific American, August, 1963, p. 64. An excellent discussion on the
mythical conception of ‘wilderness’—that which lies beyond the familiar habitat—is
provided by Shemaryahu Talmon, ‘The Desert Motif’ in the Bible and in Qumran Literature,’
in Biblical Motifs, Origins and Transformations (ed. Alexander Altman; Cambridge, 1966),
pp. 51-52. The empire of Alexander the Great popularized the Greek concept of oecumene
signifying the inhabited world, interpreted to mean the world of Hellenistic civilization.
Anything beyond the oecumene was considered of no account; an uninhabited sphere of
barbarians. Alexander Souter, A Pocket Lexicon to the Greek New Testament (Oxford, 1953),
p. 173. Dan 4:1 in this connection is of particular interest. When Nebuchadnezzar addresses
‘all peoples’ of the earth, he really is addressing his empire.
15 In the ancient world victory must be achieved over the elements of chaos before kingship
can be granted (note, for example, the sequence given in Ps 93 where conflict gives way to
kingship and enthronement). In the Babylonian Epic of Creation (ANET, 60-72), Marduk is
made king before his conflict, but he is not enthroned in his temple, or is he given the ‘Tablet
of Destiny’ until after victory. A particularly good discussion on the meaning of the
Flooddragon’s defeat is given by Loren R. Fisher and F. Brent Knutson, ‘An Enthronement
Ritual at Ugarit,’ JNES, 28 (1969), 160-161.
16 W. C. Lambert, ‘The Great Battle of the Mesopotamian Religious Year: The Conflict in the
Akitu House,’ Iraq 25 (1963), 189-190; as cited from Fisher and Knutson, JNES, 28 (1969), p.
161.

                                                                         Page 407 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
the garment of heaven (studded with jewel-stars). The most significant part of
the portrayal is the fact that beneath Marduk’s feet lies the subdued and
defeated Flooddragon.17

      On the other hand, is the miniature reflection of this great cosmic image.
The terrestrial ruler also establishes his throne by the act of subjecting his
enemy to a supine position under the soles of his feet. Frequently the
conquering monarch is portrayed either with his foot placed upon the back of
the neck of the defeated ruler, or a number of prostrated prisoners are depicted
forming a foundation base for the king’s footstool (cf. Ps 110:1).18

      In one instance, the Assyrian monarch Sennacherib (705-681 B. C.) is
pictured seated on a throne composed of and held up by defeated captives. The
dominating composition of the throne, which leaps to the eye, is the armrest,




17 Martin A. Beek, Atlas of Mesopotamia (New York, 1962), p. 139, where a picture of
Marduk on the dragon is shown along with the storm god dad in similar posture. On the same
page, Beek identifies Marduk with the spring sun. Thorkild Jacobsen (‘The Battle Between
Marduk and Tiamat,’ JAOS, 88 [1968] 105-106 identifies the meaning of the name Marduk as
signifying either ‘Son of the sun’ or ‘Son of the storm.’ The concept of the heavens forming an
outer robe for the hero-god is discussed by Albright, Yahweh and the Gods (London edition),
pp. 174-177. Note that both God and the righteous trod on the backs of monsters (Job 9:8; Ps
91:13)
18 On Tutankhamun’s footstool are representations of foreign captives prostrate with their
hands behind their backs. See Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankamen (New York,
1963), p. 51, Plate XI. The earliest known statue of a pharaoh is that of Kha-sekhem of the 2nd
Dynasty. Under his feet, at the base of the throne, are shown the contorted corpses of his
defeated enemies. See Kurt Mendelssohn, The Riddle of the Pyramids (New York, 1974), p.
67, Plate 5. Tribute nations are depicted under the Persian ruler Artaxerxes I, as if they were
holding up the whole dais upon which the throne rests. See William Culican, The Medes and
Persians (New York, 1965), p. 97, Fig. 27. It is important to realize that when a new king
ascended the throne, it was necessary for him to seek to renew all the covenant oaths of
loyalty from his vassal rulers. Like the creator-god who must overcome chaos in order to
bring forth creation, so, too, the reflected ruler on earth overcomes the political chaos in
order to establish his kingdom/empire (cf. above n. 15). See also, in particular Jos 10:24; 1
Ki 5:3.

                                                                         Page 408 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
which is made up of three tiers, each of which is held up by four prisoners.19
Just as the cosmic ruler above created an ordered realm by subduing the chaotic
Sea (the Tiamat of Babylonian mythology), so, too, the terrestrial ruler below
creates his empire by driving back and reducing the figurative ‘sea’—the enemy
host described as the ‘seed of Tiamat’ in an Assyrian inscription.20

       Turning to Scripture, several questions may be posed. Did ancient Israel
conceive of the universe in the same way as her neighbors? In answer, it would
have to be pointed out that the biblical writers were not content merely to
parrot the prevailing view that those without the familiar, inhabited sphere are
non-peoples, wretches, dogs, and the like.21 For there is the strong theme that
Israel is God’s ‘first-born son’ (Ex 4:22-23; Hos 11:1), and the ‘first fruits of his
harvest’ (Jer 2:3). The suggested conclusion is that God would make other
nations as sons, apart from Israel; that other nations also would constitute the
Lord’s harvest. Israel is spoken of as a priesthood that serves a large


19 ANEP, p. 129, No. 371; and D. J. Wiseman, Illustrations from Biblical Archaeology (London,
1958), Plate 57. Discussion by Mitchell Dahood, Psalms III (The Anchor Bible 17A; Garden
City, 1970), p. 114.
20 Compare the remarks by George E. Mendenhall, The Tenth Generation, the Origins of
Biblical Tradition (Baltimore, 1974), p. 45.
21 The concept that the sphere of God’s community is the sphere of life, beyond lying the
realm of the dead, does remain a major biblical theme. David laments that because he is
forced to live outside of God’s established kingdom, he has ‘no share in the heritage of the
LORD’ (1 Sa26:19b). Those not found in the New Jerusalem are ‘the dogs. . . and idolaters. . .”
(Rev 22:15; cf. Php 3:2). Only those who partake of God’s Covenant ‘live’; see the very useful
discussion by J. Wijngaards, ‘Death and Resurrection in Covenantal Context’, (Hos VI 2) VT,
17 (1967), 226-239. But there yet remains a great difference in outlook between Israel and
her neighbors. Naaman, the Syrian, for example, took back with him to Damascus two mules’
burden of earth from the soil of Israel (2 Ki 5:17); his idea being that no god could be
worshiped apart from the god’s own land. And Naaman was desirous of worshiping Israel’s
God at Damascus. Jonah is presented as possessing the same provincial outlook. The prophet
felt that Yahweh’s voice only could reach him in the Holy Land. If he just could flee from the
Lord’s presence, he need no longer be disturbed by God (Jon 1:3). Not only does the presence
of the Lord remain with Jonah—even as far and as deep as the heart of the seas (Jon 2:2-3)—
but Jonah goes forth as God’s messenger to non-Israelites, who did not ‘know their right hand
from their left’ (Jon 4:11).

                                                                         Page 409 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
congregation—the nations of the world (Ex19:5-6; Hos 4:6; cf. 1 Pe 2:5). Even
Israel’s rulers are but God’s ‘first-born’ (Ps. 2:7; 89:27), for God also anoints
other kings over other nations (1 Ki 19:15; Pr 8:16)

      While Israel I likened to the cosmic bull, the fructifying force which brings
forth earth’s harvest, it is noteworthy that the harvest is not limited to the
produce of the Holy Land (cf. Jer 2:3):

“Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and your
hoofs bronze; you shall beat in pieces many peoples, and shall devote their gain
to the LORD, their wealth to the Lord of the whole earth” (Mic 4:13).

      Israel, the life-giving dispensing bull, for all mankind, is about to trample
the sheaves—the nations—into chaff on the threshing floor. The result is a
harvest acceptable to God (cf. Is 41:15-16; Gn 49:6; Dt 33:16-17).22

       As to the question of cosmology, it is well known that the Bible is not
interested in presenting a systematic and comprehensive cosmology. To wit,
heaven may be likened to a solid firmament of iron (Dt 28:23; Lev 26:19); a
molten mirror (Job 37:18); as a tent spread out (Ps 104:2); as a curtain (Is
40:22; 64:1); as God’s garment (Ps 102:25-26; Heb 1:11-12); or as a scroll that
can be rolled up (Is 34:4; Rev. 6:14). Much more significant is the fact that
Scripture rejected the prevalent polytheistic vie which idolized as personified
spiritual forces the sea and other such components which make up the cosmos.
The mere fact of rejecting the notion that there was such a thing as a Sea-Dragon
to be feared—a deity of darkness and death—amounted to an across the board,
non-endorsement of pagan cosmological speculations.23

      But there remains the figurative microcosm in which the ancient view of
the universe, the components of which were personified deities, is employed to

22 See the discussion by Calum M. Carmichael on Gn 49:6 (‘Some Sayings in Genesis 49,’ JBL,
88 [1969], 435-437), where Jacob/Israel is symbolized by an ox/bull.
23 Cf. the remarks of Austin Farrer, A Rebirth of Images, the Making of St. John’s Apocalypse
(Boston, 1963), pp. 13-14.

                                                                         Page 410 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
describe the configuration of human society. The king is the ‘sun’ that ‘shines’
upon ‘the people’, his subjects. Without lies the chaotic elements of the ‘sea’; an
animated dragon of ‘non-peoples,’ the outside enemy. While the ancients
employed the macrocosm as a blueprint in order to understand their own local
microcosm, Israel took an opposite approach. Biblical writers utilized the
figurative microcosm as a symbolic blueprint to deal with the macrocosm of
which ‘no eye has seen, or ear heard, nor the heart of man conceived’ (1 Cor 2:9;
cf. Is 64:4); a greater sphere which terrestrial man could not conceptualize and
therefore could only understand through symbols and figures. In sum,
Scripture rejected idolatry, but the images of the personified cosmic forces
were retained as symbols so that they could declare God.

       Is this a working model for understanding the River-Dragon of Scripture?
The enemy beyond the boundary line for Israel, God’s covenant community
(Amos 3:2; Ex 25:8), is, in the Isaiah passage that began this article, an historical
situation, the up-coming invasion of Judah by the Assyrian army (Is 8:7). The
dimension of as human conflict, however, is transfigured to a second
dimension, that of the conflict in nature; the torrent flood that destroys the
earth. But the fact that the enemy is in the form of a winged creature (Is. 8:8)
shifts the reader’s vision to a third dimension; that of the imagery of spiritual
powers. The earthly warfare is but a shadow-pattern, conjuring up a greater
conflict:

“For we are not contending against flesh and blood, but against the
principalities, against the powers, against the world rulers of this present
darkness, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.”
Ephesians 6:12

       Again and again are found poetic parallel cola in Scripture in which the
‘sea’ in the first colon is identified as the ‘nations/peoples’ in the second colon
(Is 60:5b; Ps 46:3, 6; 65:5-8; cf. Hab 1:14; Dan 7:2-3). The ‘sea’ is a teeming
ocean, animated by chaotic elements of heathen peoples, and multitudes wo



                                                                         Page 411 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
dwell beyond God’s ‘light’. Israel is surrounded by the river-dragon, the
threatening nations.



                          Ah, the thunder of many peoples,

                            they thunder like the thundering sea!

                                Ah, the roar of nations,

                        they roar like the roaring of mighty waters!

                The nations roar like the roaring of mighty waters

      but he [God] will rebuke them, and they will flee away (Is 17:12, 13)

     It would be a mistake to dismiss this figurative language as mere
metaphor. It may be defined as ‘metaphor,’ but its roots lie more properly in
symbolic imagery.24




24 The symbolism of sea and cosmic waters in the OT is ably discussed by Herbert G. May,
“Some Cosmic Connotations of Mayim Rabbim, ‘Many Waters’”, JBL 74 (1955), 9-21. Nicolas
K. Kiessling (‘Antecedents of the Medieval Dragon in Sacred History,’ JBL, 89 [1970], 167-
175) believes that later Greek and Latin translations of Scripture changed the basic meaning
of OT dragons. In the OT, the monsters ‘inhabit the depths of the seas and are often employed
as apt metaphors of heathen kings, hostile to the children of Israel’, but later translators
altered the biblical dragon figure to become a ‘metaphor of internal disorder (either in the
self or the state).” However, that may be, Abraham J. Malherbe (‘The Beasts at Ephesus,’ JBL
[1968], 71-80 points out that as early as Plato (428-347 B. C.) ‘human passions and the
pleasures of the flesh are described as beasts which fight against man.’ Malherbe speaks of
Homer’s report (beginning of the first millennium B. C.) that after Circe had drugged the
comrades of Odysseus, they became beasts (swine, wolves, and the like); see Odyssey X, 236.
Possibly such concepts, an example of which is found in Lk 10;17-19 (where demons who
trouble individuals are figuratively equated with snakes and scorpions), are based on
imagery reaching back into antiquity. Such imagery would be founded on the notion that the
individual himself constitutes as miniature microcosm (cf. 2 Pe 1:19), where the morning
star arises in the human heart.

                                                                         Page 412 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      In Hebrew thought, earth’s ‘light’ is the Torah, God’s revelation found in
His word (Pr 6:23; Ps 119:105).25 Hence, the line marking the sun’s limit, the
boundary between light and darkness, is of a legal nature: (Job 26:10; Pr
8:27);26 the limits of God’s stipulated covenant (hoq).27 Beyond this limit of
creative activity in redemptive history (the formation of God’s chosen historic
community), sports the sea monster, Leviathan (Ps 104:25-26).28

      While the dragon figure of OT literature is frequently equated with
historical Gentile kings (Is 27:1; Jer 51:34; Ps 74:13; Eze 29:3; 32:2),29 the NT
Apocalypse identifies the monster as Satan (Rev 12:9; 20:2). An insightful OT
portrait of the dragon is provided in the book of Jonah. The great fish whom the
Lord appointed to swallow up Jonah (1:17) is a symbol of Sheol, the underworld

25 Ps 19 is of particular interest. The first part (vss. 1-6) is a hymn to the sun; God’s
revelation declared in the heavens. The second part (vss. 7-14) speaks of God’s revelation
found in the Torah; but in terms descriptive of the sun. See the comments by Dahood, Psalms
I (Garden City, 1966), p. 121. Rabbinic Judaism associated the Torah with light (2 Baruch
59:2; 77:16; IV Ezra 14:20-21). Early Jewish synagogues frequently have decorations of
Torah scrolls flanking the sanctuary lamp (Menorah). Consult the excellent study by L.
Yarden, The Tree of Light, a Study of the Menorah (Ithaca, 1971); also Y. Shiloh, ‘Torah Scrolls
and the Menorah Plaque from Sardis,’ IEJ, 18 (1968), 54-57. In Jn 5:33, 35, 39, Jesus equates
the witness of Scripture to the witness of a shining lamp, John the Baptist.
26 Wakeman, God’s Battle, pp. 134-135.
27 The ‘decree (hoq) of Yahweh’ (Ps 2:7) is the epitome of the Covenant stipulations. ‘And I
will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes (huqquim) and be careful
to observe my ordinance (mishpatim) (Eze 36:27). In Ps 105:10 (cf. 2 Ki 17:15), the word
hoq occurs in parallel with the term berith, ‘covenant’. Note the use of hoq in Job 26:10: ‘He
has inscribed a hoq upon the face of the waters at the boundary between light and darkness.’
28 The trilogy of Pss 104, 105, and 106 are not to be treated as independent entities, but are
to be taken as one grouping. See G. Ernest Wright, The Old Testament Theology (New York,
1969), pp. 77-78. Ps 104 is to be understood in light of the subject matter of Pss 105, 106.
Since the latter two psalms deal with the exodus experience, the formation of Israel into a
nation, the creation hymn of Ps 104 is in praise of God’s creation of His chosen nation. Cf. The
creation language used in Ps 89:9-10 to celebrate the establishment of David’s throne.
29 On the interesting serpent-dragon of Is 27:1, see the discussion of Edward J. Young, The
Book of Isaiah (Grand Rapids, 1969), Vol. II, pp. 232-235. M. Eliade, Cosmos and History, the
Myth of the Eternal Return (New York, 1959), pp. 37-38, contains an illuminating discussion
of the transfiguration of history into myth; the transforming of historical foes into dragon
creatures.’

                                                                         Page 413 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
(2:2), which in turn is identified as ‘the Tehom (the Deep) . . . the heart of the
seas, and the flood. . .’ (2:3)30

       The bizarre imagery of the Apocalypse, which draws so heavily from OT
literature, now can come alive with meaning. The great city Babylon, pictured
as a harlot (17:5), is seated upon many waters, the river Euphrates (17:12; cf.
16:12; Jer 51:13). But the snake-like river turns out to be a dragon (17:3). With
the smiting of the Euphrates, which then dries up (16:12), the way is prepared
for the fall of Babylon. This same event is described in another way in Rev
17:16. There, the seven-headed river-dragon turns against the harlot, thereby
preparing the way for her eventual destruction. To put it succinctly, the river
drying up, or the monster hating the harlot, are to be interpreted as parallel
expressions.

       In order to appreciate the depth of symbolism, it needs to be noted that
this portrayal of the fall of Babylon (Rev 16:12; 17:16) is based on an historical
account, found in classical sources, 31 of how feudal kings from the east (Jer
51:11),32 led by Cyrus of Persia, caused the defeat of Babylon (cf. Is 45:1). By
diverting the river Euphrates, Cyrus enabled his troop to march under the walls
and into the inner city through the dried up riverbed. Again, as with the analysis
of Is 8:7, 8, the text of Rev 16:12 provides more than one dimension. First, there
is the allusion to the historical fall of the great city in 539 B. C. Secondly, the
historical event is transfigured to that of mythological imagery. A ruling harlot
enthroned above the Flooddragon (17:3; 18:7) is overthrown (18:10). ‘The
Word of God’, radiant as the victorious sun (19:11-13; cf. 1:16; 10:1) arising
from the east (16:12; cf. 19:14), is the agent that causes her overthrow.
However, there is yet a third dimension, the interpretation of the mystical

30 Wakeman, God’s Battle, p. 81, n. 2; cf. Mt 12:39-40.
31 Herodotus, The Histories, i.177-191; Xenophon, Cyropaedia, vii.5.
32 While the mention of the arrival of the conquering kings from the east in Rev 16:12 most
likely is based on the historical allusion to the victorious vassal kings referred to in Jer 51:11,
the Revelation passage might also be referring to the kings from the east who brought
salvation to Israel (Ezr 6:14).

                                                                         Page 414 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
symbols.33 The figurative Euphrates, the Flooddragon, is really ‘peoples and
multitudes and nations and tongues’ (17:15); the unstable foundation upon
which the edifice of mystical Babylon is erected. The harlot woman, composed
of three major parts (16:19) represents the antichrist (19:19, 20). The sun-
figure, ‘The Word of God’ (19:13) is none other than Christ, the heroic figure of
the Apocalypse.

      The imagery-pattern is strikingly comparable to that of the ancient
world; the spring sun rises from the east to lay low the Flooddragon.34 But the
setting and interpretation have been radically reoriented so that these
elements of the cosmic struggle of nature, the victorious forces of spring
defeating the darkness of winter, are employed as a symbolic vehicle to
represent the victory of Christ over Satan (20:3).

     The death of the serpent-dragon evokes a fantastic imagery. In the
Mesopotamian Creation Epic,35 the sea monster Tiamat is an obstacle which
Marduk must overcome before creative acts can take place. The victorious


33 That archaic languages may carry (in poetry, or in a religious setting) a triple significance,
see the very brief comments by Gaster, Numen, 1 (1954), 204; and by W. F. Albright, History,
Archaeology and Christian Humanism (New York, 1964), pp. 78 (and n. 33), 155 (and n. 41).
See also below n. 34.
34 On the spring victory of the hero-god over the forces of winter, see especially Johannes C.
de Moor, The Seasonal Pattern in the Ugaritic Myth of Ba‘lu (Alter Orient und Altes Testament
16; Neukirchen-Vluyn, 1971). De Moor attempts to demonstrate that the Baal myth is a kind
of mythic calendar; a mythic explanation of the annually recurring seasonal changes in
nature. Following de Moor’s interpretation, three dimensions emerge: (1) Religious memory
centered upon historic formative events when society was ‘created’ by the founding fathers.
(2) These events were recounted in mythic terms (at the religious seasons by some kind of
ritual cult drama) to the changing events in nature relating to the agricultural year. (3) All of
the above were interpreted as major events in the life of the god Baal and related deities.
That myth, especially in pre-Hellenistic antiquity, was an expression of man’s understanding
of reality, see Brevard S. Childs, Myth and Reality in the Old Testament (Studies in Biblical
Theology, No 27; London, 1968), pp. 17-30. Also Kenneth Vine’s study on the meaning and
significance of myth (‘The Establishment of Baal at Ugarit,’ unpublished Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Michigan, 1965.
35 E. A. Speiser ANET, p. 67. 135-137.

                                                                         Page 415 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Marduk splits open the personified oceanic-force so that he might bring forth,
from the dead carcass, material for his ‘artful works,’ the building of the
structure of the cosmos.

       In a Canaanite account (UT, 67:1:1-5), the demise of the sea monster by
the hand of Baal seemingly has an opposite effect, the crumbling down of the
cosmic edifice. In order to smite the seven-headed Lotan (the Ugaritic cognate
for Hebrew Leviathan), Baal must bend down from heaven to administer the
fatal blow upon the Netherworld monster. Since Baal’s outer garment is the
heavenly canopy (which should be imagined as embroidered with stars), the
whole cosmos collapses as the god bends downward:

                   When you smite Lotan, the primeval serpent,

                             Destroy the twisting serpent

                          The mighty on of the seven heads,

                         (Then) the heavens wither and sag

                     Like the loops of your garment/ephod.36

      Knowledge gained from comparative mythology makes it almost certain
that the collapse of the cosmos, which reconstitutes the dragon—bringing all
its component-parts back together again--, serves as a prelude to the repetition
of the cosmogony. With the resuscitation of the whole monster, the battle
between the god-hero and the powers of chaos once more take place, from
which ensues a new creation.37


36 On the variant translations of the Ugaritic text, compare Frank Moore Cross, Canaanite
Myth and Hebrew Epic, Essays in the history of the Religion of Israel (Cambridge, 1973), pp.
119, 150; Albright, Yahweh and the Gods (London edition), p. 175; Dahood Psalms II (Garden
City, 1968), p. 205.
37 It was a widespread notion in antiquity that the happenings of the beginning of the world
will be reproduced. ‘The age to come will be inaugurated in the same way as was the present
age—by the Lord’s subjugation of the rebellious Dragon of chaos and disorder.’ Gaster, Myth,

                                                                         Page 416 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
       These mythical motifs, so familiar to ancient man, also find fantastic
analogues in Scripture, for the very same imagery of personified cosmic forces
are retained, but only to carry a metaphorical interpretation. In Isa 51:9-10, the
sea, that is divided asunder for the escaping Israelites, so that they might flee
from bondage (cf. Ex 14:2-22), is the sea that plays the role of the smitten
dragon.38 The sea monster has been split open and God’s creation emerges.
The emergent nation of Israel (‘the newly created earth’) is brought forth by
God’s creative acts in redemptive history. The animated oceanic-forces, which
are smitten, are composed of the Egyptian host:39

                  Did you not split Rahab [the sea monster] in two,

                             and pierce the dragon through?

                               Did you not dry up the sea,

                        the waters of the great Abyss [tehom],

                                to make the seabed a road

                    for the redeemed to cross? (Jerusalem Bible)




Legend, and Custom, p. 575. See also Childs, Myth and Reality, pp. 74-75; Eliade, Cosmos and
History, passim. A possible pictorial presentation of the final conflict (a repeat of the slaying
of the monster) is found on a Nabataean relief dating from the 2nd cent. A. D. The sun god and
the morning star (represented as the mounted bowman) are depicted in mortal battle with
an anguiped, a creature part human and part serpent. See Nelson Glueck, Deities and
Dolphins (New York, 1965), pp. 490-491.
38 While Is 51:9-10 is alluding back to the exodus experience of Israel escaping from Egypt,
the prophet actually is referring to the ‘exodus’ of Israel from Babylonian captivity. See
Bernhard W. Anderson, ‘Exodus Typology in Second Isaiah,’ in Israel’s Prophetic Heritage,
Essays in Honor of James Muilenburg (eds. B. W. Anderson and Walter Harrelson; New York,
1962), pp. 177-195.
39 “The waters are God’s instrument to punish ‘the monster’ by his own means.’ Wakeman,
God’s Battle, p. 128. For a recent discussion of Is 51:9-11, see Cross, Canaanite Myth, pp. 107-
108; 136-137.

                                                                         Page 417 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
      The exodus experience is described elsewhere (Ps 74:13-14) in terms of
crushing the several heads of Leviathan. Again, it is the creation motif that
dominates the imagery:40

                      . . . by your power you split the sea in two,

                and smashed the heads of monsters on the waters.

                You crushed Leviathan’s heads. . . (Jerusalem Bible)

Or as it is rendered in Ps 68:21-22:

                       God indeed smote the heads of his foes;

                                     Split their skulls

                         As he marched fort from his heavens.

                                      The Lord said:

                                   ‘I stifled the Serpent,

                        Muzzled the Deep Sea.’ (Anchor Bible)

      The crossing of the Red Sea was seen as a baptism (1 Cor 10:2 and
rabbinical lore).41 The Flood-Waters (the personification as envisioned in the
macrocosm) swallows the enemy army (the mirror reflection as envisioned in
the microcosm). Just as Moses plays the role of God (Ex 7:1), so, too, Pharaoh
and his armed might are but a shadow-figure of a greater supernatural foe (Ps
68:22 30; cf. Eze 29:3-4; 32:2). In keeping with the imagery, the smitten and
subdued enemy finds its home at the depth of the sea (Ex 15:4-5), where the
dragon properly belongs! It is this imagery that again is accentuated in the NT.

40 The primeval enemy in the story of Israel’s creation (the founding of Israel as a nation) is
Pharaoh, King of Egypt. Again, one should note the metaphorical language of the figurative
creation.
41 See the valuable discussion by W. D. Davies, The Setting of the Sermon on the Mount
(Cambridge, 1966), pp. 34-37.

                                                                         Page 418 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
The old man of sin is buried in the flood waters and a new creation emerges,
that of the spiritual man (Rom 6:4-6; cf. 2 Cor 5:17)42

       In Judges 5:19-21, the waters of Megiddo (vs. 19), the name applied to the
river Kishon (vs. 21), also is presented as a river-dragon that sweeps away the
evil enemy. 43 On the historic stage is Barak, general of the Hebrew army,
arrayed in battle against Sisera, general of the Canaanite forces. The struggle,
however, is perceived as also taking place in the world of nature. High in the
heavens, from their orbits, the stars fought against Sisera (vs. 20); even the
river Kishon joins in the fray (vs. 21). The character of the warfare undergoes a
further transformation when the river torrent is abruptly designated the ‘river
qedumim’ (vs. 21), that is, the river ‘primordial’.44 ‘Megiddo’s waters,’ where
the confrontation for the Holy Land takes place, stands unmasked as the pre-
creation sea-serpent. As with the exodus experience, once more the defeated
foe finds its habitat within the sea-serpent.

       Finally, there is the motif of the heavens sagging as the seven-headed
monster await the death blow by the god-hero (UT, 67:1:1-5). Here, too, the
same theme appears in Scripture. The collapsing cosmos, portrayed in Is
34:4, 45 reemerges again in Rev 6:13-14. Closely comparing both Scriptural


42 “He reached from on high, he took me he drew me out of many waters. He delivered me
from my strong enemy, and from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me” (Ps
18:16, 17) “events of the past can, in general, be religiously significant and relevant in the
present only insofar as they are lifted out of the specific contexts of their occurrence and
taken as symbols of continuing, universal situations. And to effect such a translation from the
punctual to the ideal is precisely the function of myth.” Gaster, ‘Myth, Mythology,’ The
Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible (New York, 1962), K-Q, p. 486.
43 Cf. the discussion by Lewis S. Hay, ‘What Really Happened at the Sea of Reeds,’ JBL, 83
(1964), 402-403.
44 The significant use of the term qedumim was drawn to my attention by my former
student, Paul Lippi. Qedem literally means ‘before’. Here it is to be understood in the
temporal sense of ‘former times, of old’ (as for example its usage in Mic 5:1 [5:2 in the MT].
On qedem possessing the meaning ‘primeval times’, see Albright, Yahweh and the Gods
(London edition), p 85.
45 Cf. Cross, Canaanite Myth, pp. 150, 175.

                                                                         Page 419 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
passages, the following picture is reconstructed: ‘The sky vanishes,’ rolled out
of view as though it were parchment. The starry ‘host languish,’ falling to the
earth ‘as a fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale.’ And meanwhile,
what is taking place? It is the great day of God’s wrath against the enemy foe.
When the resultant new creation does emerge, the ‘sea’ no longer exists (Rev
21:1).

*As a personal note I would like to express, in a volume dedicated to Siegfried
H. Horn, my deep-felt appreciation to a teacher who not only was the first to
initiate me to the rich world of biblical and ancient Near Eastern studies, but
also has become a personal friend whose inspiration and encouragement are
cherished.




                                                                         Page 420 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
Contact Information




                Secrets Unsealed is a 501(C)3 non-profit ministry.

          Your Prayers and financial support are greatly appreciated.




                                                                         Page 421 of 421
Anchor School of Theology Class: From The Close of Probation to the New Earth: A Study of
 Revelation Chapters 15 to 22 | by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org
