                        STUDIES ON DANIEL 11


                          TABLE OF CONTENTS



INTRODUCTORY MATTERS ............................................................................. 3

STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION ........................ 15

THE PAPACY’S PAST CAREER ........................................................................ 23

THE PAPACY’S FUTURE CAREER .................................................................... 93

GOD’S PEOPLE DELIVERED.......................................................................... 185

A FRESH LOOK AT DANIEL 11:40-45 ............................................................ 223

THE TYPOLOGY OF SENAQUERIB’S INVASION ............................................. 245

JOEL 2:32, ACTS 2 AND REVELATION 14 ...................................................... 253

CONTACT INFORMATION ........................................................................... 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 2 of 267
                     INTRODUCTORY MATTERS
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr


Israel and the Great Final War

In the Old Testament there are many prophets who wrote about the great
eschatological war that the wicked will wage against God’s people in the future:
Joel 2:32, chapter 3; Ezekiel 38, 39; Zechariah 12, 14; Daniel 11:40-45 and 12:1,
2; Jeremiah 25:30-38; Psalms 2, 18. All of these prophets describe the same war
and teach that God will ultimately bring salvation at the most critical point.
Although there are diversities in the details, they all refer to the final
apocalyptic climax of the moral conflict between good and evil.

The parties in this war are God, His angels and His followers against Satan his
angels and his followers. The war is not between Muslims and Christians, East
and West, Chinese and American. The war is between the righteous and the
unrighteous.

We must understand that at its core, this great controversy is between Christ
and Satan. We must also remember that the prophecies that once applied to
literal Israel in the literal ‘holy land’ now apply spiritually to the global church,
the body of Christ. It is erroneous to teach that these prophecies will find a


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 3 of 267
literal fulfillment with literal Israel in a literal geographical location. When the
New Testament writers refer to these prophecies, they remove the ethnic and
geographical limitations and apply the language symbolically and globally to
the church.

The New Testament apocalyptic scope of these prophecies is in Matthew 24,
Mark 13, Luke 21, 2 Thessalonians 2, Revelation 12:17, Revelation 13:1-10;
14:6-20; 13:11-18; 16:13-16 and chapters 17 and 19.

Hosea, Jeremiah, Ezekiel all refer to Israel (the church of God) as a wife or
woman. Likewise, the woman in Revelation 12 represents the history of God’s
faithful church in all ages since God gave the gospel promise in Genesis 3:15.
God has only one church throughout both Testaments. Revelation 12:17 which
is the final fulfillment of Genesis 3:15 is developed in Revelation 13:11-18;
14:6-20; 16:13-16 and 19:11-21. At the end, the kings of the earth and the
whole world will make war on the Lamb in the person of His witnesses (Ellen
G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 182) and the Lamb will gain the
victory. However, the Lamb will not be alone. With him are the called, and
chosen and faithful (17:14).

Revelation 20:8, 9 describes Gog and Magog gathering for the final war against
God and His people after the millennium. At this point, the literal New Jerusalem
is on earth and Christ and His followers are inside. Satan and his followers are
outside. At this point Christ will overcome His enemies in the second stage of
Armageddon.
In this study, we will focus on Daniel 11, one of the Great War Prophecies of the
Old Testament.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 4 of 267
Brief Historical Overview of the Interpretation of Daniel 11

It is not our objective to provide a full historical overview of the interpretation
of Daniel 11 in Seventh-day Adventist history. Donald E. Mansell in his
excellent work, Adventists and Armageddon (Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press,
1999), has provided an excellent summary. Our concern here is to trace how
the pioneers understood this chapter, how Uriah Smith shifted this
understanding in 1871, and how Seventh-day Adventists have returned to the
pioneer view in recent years. Let us begin our survey with William Miller.

William Miller was not a Seventh-day Adventist. However, because of his
influence on Seventh-day Adventist prophetic interpretation, it would be well
to examine his view. Miller believed that Daniel 11 followed the same
historical sequence as Daniel 2, 7 and 8-9. He expressed his understanding in
his important book, Evidence from Scripture and History of the Second Coming
of Christ about the Year 1843, (1836 edition) p. 73.

After showing how Daniel 11 follows the chronological order of the history of
Persia, Greece, and Pagan Rome, Miller wrote about the identity of the king of
the north:

“‘And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself and magnify
himself above every god, and shall speak marvelous things against the God of
gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be accomplished, for that, that is
determined shall be done.’ The king here spoken of is the same as Daniel’s little
horn, which came up among the ten horns. It is the same that blasphemed the God
of heaven. It is mystical Babylon. Isa. xiv. 12-15; Rev. xiii. 5, 6. The same Paul has
described in his epistle, II Thess. ii. 1-9.”

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 5 of 267
Clearly, William Miller believed that the king of the north symbolized the
Roman Catholic papacy. Miller reached this conclusion by following the
historicist principles that guided him in his study of Bible prophecy.

To our knowledge, the earliest reference to the king of the north in Seventh-day
Adventist literature is a pamphlet co-authored by James and Ellen White and
published on May 30, 1847:

“Michael is to stand up at the time that the last power in Chapter 11 comes to his
end, and none to help him. This power is the last that treads down the true church
of God: and as the true church is still trodden down, and cast out by Christendom,
it follows that the last oppressive power has not ‘come to his end’; and Michael has
not stood up. This last power that treads down the saints is brought to view in
Revelation 13:11-18. His number is 666.” (James and Ellen White, A Word to the
Little Flock Scattered Abroad, p. 9

It is clear that James and Ellen White agreed with Miller’s interpretation of the
king of the north. As is well known, in The Great Controversy Ellen White clearly
identified the beast whose number is 666 as the Roman Catholic papacy.

This early view of William Miller and James and Ellen White went virtually
unchallenged for twenty-five years. However, in 1871 Uriah Smith shifted the
traditional view of the king of the north from the Papacy to Turkey. This led
James White to accuse Smith or ‘removing the landmarks fully established in the
Advent Movement.’

Raymond F. Cottrell, who in the late 1940's and early 1950's did extensive
research in this area, remarked:



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 6 of 267
“James White in the Review of November 29, 1877, some years after Uriah Smith
had shifted from his own original position substituting Turkey for Rome . . .
wrote advising caution in the interpretation of unfulfilled prophecy and found
Uriah Smith ‘removing the landmarks fully established in the Advent Movement’.
This article leaves no doubt that the position making Rome the power of Daniel
11:45 and Revelation 16:12 had been ‘fully established’ as a ‘landmark’ in the
Advent Movement prior to that time, and that it was held by the pioneers of this
message, without exception down to at least 1863.” Raymond F. Cottrell, ‘The
Pioneers on Daniel Eleven and Armageddon.’ Paper available at the Andrews
University Heritage Room.

In an article published in The Review and Herald on October 3, 1878, James
White argued persuasively that the king of the north could not be Turkey:

“If the feet and ten toes of the metallic image are Roman, if the beast with the ten
horns that was given to the burning of the flames of the great day be the Roman
beast, if the little horn which stood up against the Prince of princes be Rome, and
if the same field and distance are covered by these four prophetic chains, then the
last power of the eleventh chapter, which is ‘to come to his end and none shall help
him,’ is Rome. But if this be Turkey, as some teach, then the toes of the image of
the second chapter are Turkish, the beast with the ten horns of the seventh
chapter represents Turkey, and it was Turkey that stood up against the Prince of
princes in the eighth chapter of Daniel.”

Though James White was probably exaggerating when he called the pioneer
view of the king of the north a ‘landmark’ the fact still remains that this was the
original pioneer view, a view that Uriah Smith changed in 1871. Donald E.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 7 of 267
Mansell documented very well how Smith changed his view because of events
that were transpiring in Turkey around 1871. In this way, Smith allowed the
press to dictate his interpretation of the king of the north.

It might surprise some to know that Ellen White never actually quoted any
verse from Daniel 11:40-45. In fact, to my knowledge, Ellen White only referred
to Daniel 11 three times (other than duplicate quotes) in her writings. One of
these references is general in nature, another is indirect and general and a
third is quite specific.

Here is her general reference:

“The world is stirred with the spirit of war. The prophecy of the eleventh chapter
of Daniel has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Soon the scenes of trouble
spoken of in the prophecies will take place.” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, volume 9, p. 14)

In her indirect and general statement, Ellen White wrote:

“The light that Daniel received direct from God was given especially for these last
days. The visions he saw by the banks of the Ulai [Daniel 8] and the Hiddekel
[Daniel 10-11], the great rivers of Shinar, are now in the process of fulfillment,
and all the events foretold will soon have come to pass.” (Ellen G. White,
Testimonies to Ministers, pp. 112-113)

The third reference is the only time that Ellen G. White actually quoted verses
from Daniel 11:

“Troublous times are before us. The world is stirred with a spirit of war. Soon the
scenes of trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take place. The prophecy in the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 8 of 267
eleventh of Daniel has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Much of the history
that has taken place in the fulfillment of this prophecy will be repeated. In the
thirtieth verse a power is spoken of that ‘shall be grieved, and return, and have
indignation against the holy covenant; so shall he do; he shall even return, and
have intelligence with them that forsake the holy covenant.’ [Ellen White then
quotes verses 31-36]. Scenes similar to those described in these words will take
place. We see evidence that Satan is fast obtaining the control of human minds
who have not the fear of God before them.” (Ellen G. White, Letter 103, 1904)

We must emphasize one key element in this quotation. Clearly, Ellen White saw
a similar repetition of the scenes described in Daniel 11:30-36. However, this
does not necessarily mean that she believed these verses would receive a dual
fulfillment. She did not write that this prophecy would be fulfilled a second
time. What she did say is that much of the history that already fulfilled this
prophecy would occur once more.

“The Bible has accumulated and bound up together its treasures for this last
generation. All the great events and solemn transactions of Old Testament
history have been, and are, repeating themselves in the church in these last
days.” Ellen G. White, Selected Message, vol. 3, p. 339

“Study Revelation in connection with Daniel, for history will be repeated.” Ellen
G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 116

Why will the history of this period repeat again? Simply because the papacy,
the power described in these verses that oppressed the saints of God for 1260
years will resurrect from its mortal wound to oppress them again, but on a
global scale. Verses 40-45 describe this end-time persecution after the healing


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 9 of 267
of the deadly wound. Thus, as we shall see, verses 40-45 describe the repetition
of much of the history that verses 30-36 describe.

Although Ellen White rebuked her husband for his confrontational spirit
against Uriah Smith on the issue of the king of the north, she did not take issue
with his interpretation. Some have taken Ellen White’s scarce comments on
Daniel 11 and her rebuke of James White as an indication that she sided with
Smith on this issue. In fact, nothing could be further from the truth. Ellen White
simply felt that at that time the church needed to expend its spiritual energy
on much more important issues than the identity of the king of the north. A
careful study of Early Writings and The Great Controversy clearly indicates that
she supported her husband’s side on this issue. On the practical side, however,
Ellen White knew that Daniel 11 was not Present Truth at that particular time
so her primary interest fell on keeping unity in the church.

As we proceed in our study Daniel 11, we shall see that Ellen White’s
interpretation of the king of the north is absolutely clear and unequivocal. As
previously noted, her earliest view held that the king of the north is the papacy,
and this continued to be her understanding at least until the publication of the
1911 edition of The Great Controversy.

Ellen White’s methodology in the exposition of Daniel 11 was masterful.
Though she quoted verses from Daniel 11 only once and never quoted any verse
or used the terminology from Daniel 11:40-45, the careful reader of Early
Writings, pp. 269-273 and The Great Controversy, pp. 211-236, 563-637 will see
that she did indeed have much to say on the meaning of these verses. In my
chart, ‘The Structure of The Great Controversy and Early Writings as Compared


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 10 of 267
to Daniel 11 and Revelation’ I have shown that the chronological flow of events
in Ellen White’s two publications mentioned above is identical to that of Daniel
11:40-45. However, instead of using Daniel’s language, she employed her own.

Perhaps it might be well to give an example of what I mean. Although Ellen
White never quoted a verse or employed the terminology of Daniel 11:40-45,
she did frequently quote from Daniel 12:1-3. This is important because the
opening phrase of Daniel 12:1 (‘at that time’) indicates that Daniel 12:1-3 is a
continuation and conclusion of the argument in Daniel 11:40-45. That is to say,
the standing up of Michael in 12:1 follows immediately after the king of the
north goes out to destroy and annihilate many (Daniel 11:44-45). The chapter
division at this point is unfortunate because Daniel 12:1-3 is a continuation of
the argument of the previous chapter.

In The Great Controversy, p. 613 Ellen White began the chapter, ‘The Time of
Trouble’. by quoting Daniel 12:1. This is a critical reference point that helps us
comprehend how Ellen White understood the meaning of the king of the north.
The chapter after ‘The Time of Trouble’ bears the title, ‘God’s People Delivered’
(p. 635). On page 637, Ellen White explained the special resurrection and
quoted Daniel 12:1, 2. One cannot help but see that in these pages Ellen White
described the four events of Daniel 12:1, 2 in their proper chronological order:

    The standing up of Michael
    The time of trouble
    The deliverance of God’s people
    The special resurrection.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 11 of 267
Now, if Daniel 12:1, 2 is a continuation of the events described in Daniel 11:40-
45 then we would expect Ellen White to comment on verses 40-45 immediately
before she quoted Daniel 12:1.

What do we find in The Great Controversy immediately before the chapter on
‘The Time of Trouble’? A careful examination of the chapters that immediately
precede the chapter on ‘The Time of Trouble’ leaves no doubt about how Ellen
White understood the king of the north. In these chapters, she wrote about the
healing of the papacy’s mortal wound through the aid of the civil powers of
the world and apostate Protestantism. She also wrote about how the Loud Cry
(Revelation 18:1-5) and the Sealing Message (Revelation 7:1-8) would enrage
the wicked and lead them to persecute the remnant that would cause a great
shaking among God’s people (see Matthew 24:9, 10). Later on in our study, we
will see in detail how Ellen White followed the precise chronological sequence
of events in Daniel 11:40-12:3. Ellen White was far from silent on the identity
of the king of the north.

Uriah Smith’s new view of the king of the north ruled for many decades in
Seventh-day Adventist prophetic interpretation. Evangelists preached many a
spectacular sermon on the fall of Turkey, the drying up of the Euphrates River
and the mustering of the nations of the East for one great final battle against the
Western Nations in the Valley of Megiddo. The Pioneer view seemed to be dead,
buried and forgotten.

Then, in the 1930's, Australian evangelist Louis F. Were began reexamining
the prophecy of Daniel 11 and resurrected the pioneer view. Amidst
denominational opposition from the ‘old guard’ and at the cost of his ministerial


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 12 of 267
credentials, Louis Were nudged the church back to the original view. Scholars
such as Raymond F. Cottrell and Hans LaRondelle then built upon the work of
Louis Were. Presently, the church has come full circle back to the original view
of the pioneers and none too soon! What was not Present Truth in Uriah Smith’s
day is certainly Present Truth in a day when the papacy, Protestantism and the
civil powers seem to be courting each other on an unprecedented scale.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 13 of 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 14 of 267
            STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND PRINCIPLES
                   OF INTERPRETATION
                                  By Pastor Stephen Bohr


Structural Considerations

It beyond the scope of this study to analyze the whole of Daniel 11. Our
objective is to zero in on verses 30-45. However, before we can do this we must
briefly determine where these verses fit within the historical flow of events
described in the chapter. The sequence of historical events in verses 2-39 seem
to follow the same basic order as the prophecy of Daniel 8. However, beginning
at verse 40 we shall see that what Daniel 8 briefly covered (verses 17, 19, 25-
26) will find a development in 11:40-12:1.

The Historical Outline of 11:2-39

Daniel 11:1

Daniel 9 and 11 bear the same date—the first year of Darius—indicating that
Daniel 11 is a further explanation and expansion of Daniel 8 and 9. Both
prophecies begin with Persia and not Babylon because the 2300 days begin
during the period of Persia. If Gabriel had started the explanation in Daniel 8
with Babylon, he would have left the impression that the 2300 days would
begin during the period of Babylon.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 15 of 267
Daniel 11:2

Daniel 11 begins at the same historical reference point as Daniel 8. In Daniel 9,
the king that gave the decree to build and restore Jerusalem was Artaxerxes and
the fourth king in Daniel 11:2 is the same Artaxerxes (see below). Thus, there
is a connection between Daniel 11:2 and the prophecy of the 70 weeks in Daniel
9. Both chapters bear the same date and begin with King Artaxerxes. In other
words, Gabriel told Daniel the very king that would give the decree that began
the 2300-day prophecy. Gabriel mentioned the first three kings only because
he wanted to give a historical reference point for when the fourth would
appear.

The first three kings in Persia after Cyrus (Daniel 8:3, 4, 20) were Cambyses,
Darius, Ahasuerus and the fourth was King Artaxerxes. J. Doukhan correctly
wrote:

“Why four kings? And why has the prophecy started with the fourth one and not
with another? Artaxerxes has already been pointed out in the book of Daniel in
connection with the prophecy of the seventy weeks (Daniel 9:24-27); it started
with the decree of Artaxerxes. Moreover, the very first words of Daniel 11:1
remind of the introduction of Daniel 9. This same setting of Daniel 9 at the opening
of chapter 11 indicates that the prophet clearly connects his vision to the 70
weeks, hence also in the wake of the 2300 days, since both periods start at the
decree of Artaxerxes.” J. Doukhan, Daniel: The Vision of the End, p. 77.

Here is the sequence of powers in Daniel 8 and 11:

Daniel 11:2: Greece (Daniel 8:5-8)
Daniel 11:3 Alexander the Great (Daniel 8:5, 8)

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 16 of 267
Daniel 11:4: The fourfold division of Alexander’s Greek empire (Daniel 8:4)
Daniel 11:5-15: The struggle of Syria and Egypt (kings of the north and south)
Daniel 11:16-28: The Roman Empire (Daniel 8:9-10)
Daniel 11:29-39: Papal Rome during the 1260 years (Daniel 8:11-12)

The Historical Outline of Daniel 11:40-12:1

Daniel 11:40a: The king of the north receives a deadly wound.
Daniel 11:40b: The deadly wound of the king of the north heals as it moves
from the River Euphrates in the north toward the south.
Daniel 11:40c: The king of the north moves west and conquers the countries
north of Israel—probably Syria, Lebanon, Tyre and Sidon.
Daniel 11:41: The king of the north moves to the south and enters the Glorious
Land of Israel and many people fall.
Daniel 11:41: Edom, Moab and Ammon, east of the Glorious Land, flee to
Jerusalem to escape the onslaught of the king of the north.
Daniel 11:42: The king of the north then moves south and overcomes Egypt,
Ethiopia and Libya.
Daniel 11:43: In its conquests, the king of the north accumulates many riches,
even the riches of the world.
Daniel 11:44a: Having conquered the world from the Euphrates to the Nile,
tidings from the north and east alarm the king of the north.
Daniel 11:44b: The king of the north, moves north and east with great fury in
an attempt to destroy those who have found refuge in Jerusalem.
Daniel 11:45: The king of the north pitches his tents in a strategic place (the
Mount of the Congregation) to attack God’s people in Jerusalem.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 17 of 267
Daniel 12:1a: The Investigative Judgment ends when Michael stands up (in
Daniel 8:13-14 the judgment began).
Daniel 12:1b: The time of trouble ensues for the members of Christ’s kingdom.
Daniel 12:1c: God intervenes to deliver His living saints from the king of the
north.
Daniel 12:2: Those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message and those
who pierced Jesus resurrect in a ‘special resurrection’.
Daniel 12:3: Those who understand shine as the stars in the everlasting
kingdom.

Principles of Interpretation

Scholars have not paid enough attention to the geographical progression of the
king of the north’s conquests as noted above. Daniel 11:40-45 compares the
devastating invasion of the king of the north with the onslaught of the
Euphrates river at flood stage (see also Isaiah 8:7-8; Revelation 16:12-16; 17:1-
6, 15).

The overflowing river originates in Babylon and then moves west
overwhelming the countries north of Israel—Syria, Lebanon, Tyre and Sidon
(verse 40). The river then continues moving south, enters the glorious land of
Palestine and overthrows many people there (verse 41). As it overwhelms
Edom, Moab and Ammon east of Israel, multitudes escape and flee for refuge in
Jerusalem (verse 41). The river then continues moving south, overflowing
Egypt, Ethiopia and Libya (verses 42-43).

However, when the king of the north is in Egypt (south and west of Israel),
tidings from the north and the east (these tidings are coming from Jerusalem

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 18 of 267
because Jerusalem is north and east of Egypt) shake him up (verse 44). The
news is so alarming that he moves toward the north and east and finally pitches
the tents of his palace in a strategic place between the Mediterranean and
Mount Zion intent on making a devastating strike against the Holy City where
the tidings are coming from (verse 45).

It is vital to realize that at this point, the king of the north has overcome the
entire civilized world of the time. He only needs to gain one more victory to
have total ‘global’ control. If he can defeat Jerusalem where the tidings are
coming from, his triumph will be complete. However, when he is about to strike
the final blow against Jerusalem, he comes to his end with none to help him. His
helpers, the kings of the earth, the false prophet, the merchants and the
multitudes will withdraw their support from him.

A very important question now is this: In the end-time, are we to understand
the king of the north, the king of the south, Edom, Ammon, Moab, Egypt, Libya
and Ethiopia literally or are we to see in them symbols of worldwide religious
and political systems? That is to say, are we to understand the king of the north
as Russia invading the literal land of Israel, conquering literal Egypt and ending
up at literal Jerusalem?

It is obvious that we cannot understand Edom, Ammon and Moab literally,
because they do not even exist as nations anymore. If we cannot take these
nations literally, why should we take the others so? Is there a guiding principle
to help us understand this prophecy and if so, what is it? Louis Were suggests
the following succinct principle:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 19 of 267
“When passing over into the Christian era there is an automatic transition from
literal to spiritual Babylon; from literal to spiritual Jerusalem; from the literal
lands of Israel and Babylon to their spiritual antitypes.” (Louis F. Were, The King
of the North at Jerusalem, p. 75)

As we saw in our study of the seventy weeks, when Stephen was stoned, the
door of probation closed for the Jewish theocracy and the preaching of the
gospel moved to the believing Jews and the Gentiles who became God’s new
spiritual and worldwide Israel (see, Galatians 3:16, 26-29; Romans 2:28-29;
9:6-8). No longer were there any holy mountains (see John 4:20-24). Today,
where two or three are gathered together in Christ’s name, there He is in the
midst of them (Matthew 18:20). Jesus is not where Jerusalem is but rather
Jerusalem is where Jesus is and Jesus is where two or three gather in His name.
That is to say, the holy land today is worldwide and includes those who have
embraced Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Those who are not gathered to Christ,
scatter (Luke 11:23).

Hebrews 8:8 quotes Jeremiah 31 and tells us that God has made a new covenant
(see Matthew 26:28) with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Are we to
understand that the new covenant is only for literal Israel and literal Judah? If
we take the language of Hebrews 8:8 literally, we would have to reach that
conclusion. No dispensationalist would go so far as to say that the new covenant
applies only to literal Israel. God made the new covenant with a spiritual and
worldwide Israel. This must mean that we should interpret the enemies of
Israel as spiritual and worldwide as well. (For other examples, see how Ellen
White uses Zechariah 12:8 in Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church,



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 20 of 267
volume 5, p. 81, and Isaiah 4:3-4 in Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church,
volume 5, pp. 475, 476; Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 592).

This principle has extremely important implications for the study of the
prophecy of Daniel 11. It means that we must interpret all the events in Daniel
11 before the year 34 AD in the context of literal Israel. Thus, the king of north
in verses 3-15 during the Grecian period, represent literal Syria, which was
literally north of Israel and the king of the south represents literal Egypt that
was literally south of Israel.

However, in Daniel 11:40, Israel (the glorious land and Jerusalem) is worldwide
and spiritual and therefore we must understand the king of the north and the
king of the south as worldwide and spiritual as well. This principle also holds
true with Edom, Moab, Ammon, Egypt, Ethiopia and Libya.

We can say the same about the people of Daniel. In Daniel 9:24, Gabriel
informed the prophet that seventy weeks were determined for his people and
city. We must understand the people and the city at this point as literal
Israelites in the literal city of Jerusalem. However, in Daniel 10:14; 12:1 we
must interpret the people of Daniel as spiritual and worldwide Israel. With
this principle in mind, let us now do a verse-by-verse study of Daniel 11:31-
12:3.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 21 of 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 22 of 267
                   THE PAPACY’S PAST CAREER
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr



The True and the Counterfeit King of the North

Before we begin our comments on verse 31, it would be well to identify the
genuine and counterfeit king of the north.

The Bible clearly teaches that the true King of the north is God who dwells on
Mount Zion in the heavenly Jerusalem (Isaiah 14:12-14; Psalm 48:1-2; Matthew
5:35-36). In ages past, Satan attempted to overthrow God and usurp His throne
in the sides of the north in heaven, but he failed. Consequently, Satan set up a
rival kingdom on earth. In this way, Satan became the counterfeit king of the
north on earth, usurping the legitimate position of God.

As God sits in the heavenly Jerusalem temple in the sides of the north, Satan sits
in the earthly temple in the sides of the symbolic north planting a counterfeit
religion in the church. The king of the north does not openly deny the true God
and religion but rather establishes a false god and a false religion.                             (2
Thessalonians 2:3-4). The name of God’s kingdom is Israel and the name of
Satan’s kingdom is Babylon. However, there is more to the story.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 23 of 267
God the Father has his vicar or vice-gerent who is Jesus. Satan also has his vicar
or vice-gerent who is the pope. Thus, the two invisible champions—God and
Satan—have their respective earthly representatives. Territorially speaking,
Jerusalem, in the sides of the north, was God’s Holy See in the Old Testament.
There, David and his successors sat as types of Jesus, the King of kings and Lord
of lords (Revelation 17:14). On the other hand, Satan’s See in the Old Testament
was Babylon, the archenemy of Israel. There sat Nebuchadnezzar, the
counterfeit king of kings (Ezekiel 26:7; see also 38:6, 15; 39:2).

Biblically, the kingdom of the north was Assyria/Babylon because it came
against Israel from the north. Jeremiah warned Judah that an evil would come
upon them from the north, a clear reference to Babylon (Jeremiah 1:13-15; 4:6-
7; 6:1, 22-23; 10:22; 25:9, 26; 31:8; Ezekiel 26:7). Significantly, Jeremiah
describes the invasion of Judah by Nebuchadnezzar as an overwhelming flood
(Jeremiah 47:2). The flood of Babylon is the river Euphrates (Jeremiah 46:2, 6,
10, 20, 24; Joshua 24:2, 3, 14). When the Assyrian King Sennaquerib invaded
Judah in the year 701 BC, Isaiah described his military campaign as an
overwhelming flood (Isaiah 8:7-8). In Daniel 3, we find a clear description of
Babylon’s counterfeit religion. It sought to impose false worship upon God’s
faithful remnant by force.

Literally speaking, the king of the north in Daniel 11 is Babylon and his invasion
of the glorious land is compared to an overwhelming flood (Daniel 11:40).
Symbolically however, the king of the north at the end of this chapter
represents the papacy, which will employ ‘multitudes, nations, tongues and
people’ (Revelation 17:1, 15) to attempt to overwhelm the end-time remnant



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 24 of 267
church. There are multiple reasons why the king of the north represents the
same power as the little horn of Daniel 8.

Besides the fact that both the little horn and the king of the north follow Media
and Persia in the prophetic chain, there are four other close parallels between
the king of the north in this verse and the little horn in Daniel 8. As we have
previously noted, the little horn of Daniel 8 represents the Roman Catholic
papacy. This being the case, the king of the north in Daniel 11 must represent
the same power.

Comments on Verse 31

‘Arms shall stand on his part [on his behalf] . . .’ (11:31)

Regarding the word ‘arms,’ the Old Testament scholar, Walter C. Kaiser
remarks:

“In the plural ‘arms’ is equivalent to military or political forces or armies (Dan.
11:15, 22, 31)” (R. Laird Harris, editor. Theological Wordbook of the Old
Testament (Chicago: Moody Press, 1981), volume 1, pp. 253-254)

This means that the king of the north would be helped by the military forces of
a political power (see Psalm 37:17; Isaiah 44:12; Ezekiel 30:22-25; 2Chronicles.
32:8; Daniel 11:5). This reminds us of the union of iron and clay in the feet of
the image of Daniel 2. We also remember that the little horn would rise to rule
‘but not by his own power’. (Daniel 8:24). Revelation 13:10 presents the same
scenario. The beast used the sword of the state (see Romans 13:1-5) to slay the
saints and the same sword gave the beast its deadly wound (Revelation 13:9,
10). Revelation 17:1, 2 portrays the same power as a harlot who fornicates with

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 25 of 267
the kings of the earth. Significant is the fact that the king of the north existed
before this point but without the aid of ‘arms’. 2 Thessalonians 2 underlines
that the man of sin existed before the restrainer was removed and the
restrainer was the Roman Empire.

This is the same idea we find in Daniel 8:12 where the little horn ‘was given’ a
host to carry on its nefarious work against the sanctuary, the host, the Prince
and the daily. As we have previously noted, the word ‘host’ in this context
means ‘army’. We see here a union of the religious and political powers, the
union of church and state.

In the year 508 AD, Clovis, king of the Franks, was the first to give temporal
power to the papacy. Thus, France was the first of the European nations to
‘forsake paganism’ and embrace the Catholic religion.

‘. . . and they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength. . .’

Significantly, the personal pronoun here changes from singular to plural. The
pronoun ‘they’ can be a reference to the armies or to both the armies and the
king of the north. I believe the proper sense in the context is the latter. In other
words, the political power stands on behalf of the king of the north and then
they, together, pollute the sanctuary. In what sense does this union of church
and state pollute the sanctuary?

The Hebrew word chalal means ‘to profane, to defile, to pollute’ and to
‘desecrate’

Daniel 8 tells us that the little horn trampled the host and the stars for which
reason the sanctuary needed cleansing, vindication and restoration to its


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 26 of 267
 rightful state (see Leviticus 20:3; 21:6, 12; Ezekiel 7:20-22; Ezekiel 13:19;
 Ezekiel 20:39; 39:7; 44:7; Ezekiel 23:37-39 40-49 on how the sanctuary could
 be ‘illegally’ defiled). Daniel 8 describes the same period when the little horn
 trampled on the saints, the prince, the sanctuary and the daily. Revelation 11:2
 also points to this period when the Gentiles trampled the court of the sanctuary
 for 1260 days. This fits the context of Daniel 11.

‘. . . and shall take away the daily sacrifice. . .’

 Daniel 8:12 tells us that ‘an army was given over to the [little] horn’ to take
 away the daily and Daniel 8:24 adds that ‘his power shall be mighty, but not by
 his own power’. In parallel fashion, Daniel 11 tells us that the king of the north
 took away the daily with the help of arms. Clearly, these two prophecies are
 parallel.

 The question that faces us at this point is the meaning of the ‘daily’ that the
 little horn removed from the Prince of the Host. What does the word ‘daily’
 mean?

 It is difficult to interpret the word unless we go to other places in Scripture
 that explain it. The word is an adjective that has no noun to qualify. So this is
 the question, the little horn took away the daily what?

 The meaning of the word tahmid is simply “something which goes on
 continuously without interruption.” However, what is it that ‘goes on
 continuously without interruption’ in Daniel 8?

 It is important to keep in mind that the word tahmid has the definite article
 ‘the’. It is THE daily (hatamid) that the little horn took away (see also Daniel


 Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 27 of 267
11:31; 12:11). The King James Version translators added the word ‘sacrifice,’
thinking that tahmid refers to the morning and evening sacrifice. However,
tahmid involves far more than just the daily sacrifice. There is a Hebrew
expression for the daily sacrifice, ‘olat tahmid’. Regarding the King James
Translation Ellen White wrote:

“Then I saw in relation to the "daily" (Daniel 8:12) that the word ‘sacrifice’ was
supplied by man's wisdom, and does not belong to the text, and that the Lord
gave the correct view of it to those who gave the judgment hour cry.” Ellen G.
White, Early Writings, pp. 74, 75.

What, then, does this word mean? We must allow other Old Testament texts to
explain. The Old Testament makes it abundantly clear that this word refers to
the daily or continual ministration of the priest in the court and in the holy
place of the sanctuary. This means that the little horn was going to attempt to
take away from the Prince of the host His priestly ministration in the court and
in the holy place of the sanctuary.

In order to comprehend how the little horn took away the daily, we need to
identify the Prince and the sanctuary in which He ministered at this point in the
vision. We also need to identify the symbolic meaning of each of the items of
furniture in the court and in the holy place. In other words, we need to identify
the symbolic meaning of the altar of sacrifice, the candlestick, the table of
showbread and the altar of incense.

Joshua 5:13-15 identifies the Prince of the host as Jesus. So, where does Jesus
minister today? The evidence from the New Testament clearly indicates that



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 28 of 267
during the Christian era Jesus has been ministering in the holy places of the
heavenly sanctuary (Hebrews 8:1, 2).

Matthew 21:12-13 tells us that at the end of the Triumphal Entry of Jesus into
Jerusalem, He went into the temple of God and called it ‘My Father’s house’.
However, a short while later, when Jesus departed from the Jewish temple, He
announced to the Jewish leaders, “your house is left unto you desolate.”
(Matthew 23:38). Clearly, the Jerusalem Temple was no longer the ‘Father’s
house’ nor the ‘temple of God’ because Jesus, the ‘living Shekinah’ had forsaken
it. The rending of the veil indicated that the functions of the earthly sanctuary
had concluded and the system of earthly types and shadows had ended
(Matthew 27:51).

Because the Jewish nation rejected Christ, in AD 70 the Romans destroyed
the Jerusalem Temple (Luke 19:41-44) and it has never been rebuilt. For this
reason, it is not possible to conclude that the sanctuary the little horn trampled
upon during the Christian era was the literal Jerusalem Temple. During the
Christian dispensation when the little horn did its work, there was no earthly
Jerusalem temple in existence!

Therefore, the question is this: if the little horn did not usurp the priestly
functions in the literal Jerusalem Temple, then which one? The answer is two-
fold.

First, upon His ascension, Jesus began His ministry as High Priest in the literal
heavenly sanctuary personally and physically (Hebrews 8:1-2). He is the
genuine High Priest who ministers in the literal heavenly temple on the literal
heavenly Mt. Zion in the literal heavenly Jerusalem. He is the minister of a


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 29 of 267
better covenant because He presents before His Father His own better blood
that runs through His veins. He is the living Shekinah in the heavenly temple.

Secondly, Jesus also ministers in the spiritual temple on earth and that temple
is the Christian Church. This spiritual temple has spiritual foundations, a
spiritual Cornerstone, spiritual building stones and a spiritual Shekinah (the
Holy Spirit) who entered it on the Day of Pentecost (see, Ephesians 2:20-22; 1
Peter 2:1-10; 1 Corinthians 3:16-17; 2 Corinthians 6:14-18; 2 Thessalonians
2:3-4). In other words, Jesus ministers in two places at the same time:
Physically in heaven and spiritually on earth through the ministry of the
Holy Spirit. His heavenly hosts are the angels and His earthly hosts are His
faithful human followers.

So what does Daniel 8 mean when it states that the little horn took away the
‘daily’ from the Prince and trampled His hosts? Obviously, it cannot mean that
the little horn literally and personally traveled to heaven deposed Jesus, sat in
the heavenly Temple and trampled upon the angels.

What, then, does it mean? We find the answer in Daniel 8:11 where the text tells
us that the little horn cast down the place of the Prince’s sanctuary to the earth.
We have already shown that the place of the Prince’s sanctuary is in the literal
heavenly Temple and in His Church on earth.

The word ‘place’ (makon) in the text is not common. There are some very
common Hebrew words for ‘place’ in the Old Testament but this is not one of
them. The word makon appears only 17 times in the Hebrew Bible and in 16 of
those references the word denotes the heavenly sanctuary as God’s dwelling
place (for example, Exodus 15:17).


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 30 of 267
Perhaps it would be well to consider some of those references. In 1 Kings 8:37-
50 (and parallel passages in 1 Chronicles 6:30, 33, 39; study also Psalm 89:14;
97:2 where makon is translated, ‘habitation’) tells us that God hears our
prayers, forgives our sins, saves us and metes out His justice from His heavenly
place (makon).

"When there is famine in the land, pestilence or blight or mildew, locusts or
grasshoppers; when their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities;
whatever plague or whatever sickness there is; 38 whatever prayer, whatever
supplication is made by anyone, or by all Your people Israel, when each one knows
the plague of his own heart, and spreads out his hands toward this temple: 39
then hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and act, and give to
everyone according to all his ways, whose heart You know (for You alone know
the hearts of all the sons of men), 40 that they may fear You all the days that they
live in the land which You gave to our fathers. 41 "Moreover, concerning a
foreigner, who is not of Your people Israel, but has come from a far country for
Your name's sake 42 (for they will hear of Your great name and Your strong hand
and Your outstretched arm), when he comes and prays toward this temple, 43
hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the
foreigner calls to You, that all peoples of the earth may know Your name and fear
You, as do Your people Israel, and that they may know that this temple which I
have built is called by Your name. 44 "When Your people go out to battle against
their enemy, wherever You send them, and when they pray to the Lord toward the
city which You have chosen and the temple which I have built for Your name, 45
then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their
cause. 46 "When they sin against You (for there is no one who does not sin), and

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 31 of 267
You become angry with them and deliver them to the enemy, and they take them
captive to the land of the enemy, far or near; 47 yet when they come to themselves
in the land where they were carried captive, and repent, and make supplication
to You in the land of those who took them captive, saying, 'We have sinned and
done wrong, we have committed wickedness'; 48 and when they return to You with
all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies who led them
away captive, and pray to You toward their land which You gave to their
fathers, the city which You have chosen and the temple which I have built for
Your name: 49 then hear in heaven Your dwelling place their prayer and their
supplication, and maintain their cause, 50 and forgive Your people who have
sinned against You, and all their transgressions which they have transgressed
against You; and grant them compassion before those who took them captive,
that they may have compassion on them.”

There is a paradox in this passage. Although God’s people utter their prayers
toward the earthly temple, God hears their prayers and answers them from the
temple in heaven:

“Hear the plea of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward
this place: O hear in heaven your dwelling place, heed and forgive.” (1 Kings
8:30; see also Daniel 6:10).

Thus, there is a close connection between the earthly and heavenly temples. In
a sense, God dwells in both! For our purposes here, it is important to remember
that when Nebuchadnezzar came and destroyed the Jerusalem Temple, he was
not able to touch the heavenly! In similar fashion, the little horn was able to
take over the sanctuary functions of the Prince and kill His hosts on earth but


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 32 of 267
it was not able to take away the functions of the Prince in heaven nor destroy
His angels.

The act of casting down the place of the Prince’s sanctuary does not mean that
the little horn demolished the mortar and stones of the heavenly sanctuary.
The meaning is that the little horn usurped and placed on earth the ‘daily’ or
‘continual’ ministration of the heavenly Prince. In other words, that which
belonged to the Prince in heaven, the little horn usurped and set up on earth.

Significantly, at this point in the flow of Christian history, the little horn
attempted to interfere mainly with the ‘daily’ ministry of the Prince in the court
and in the holy place. This is understandable in that during the period of papal
dominion, Jesus had not yet entered the most holy place of the heavenly
sanctuary.

The central issue in this conflict is this: Who will control the sanctuary service
in the court and in the holy place? Will it be the Prince or the little horn?
Further, why is control of the sanctuary such a vital issue? We find the answers
to these questions by considering the meaning of the altar of sacrifice in the
court and the candlestick, the table of showbread and the altar of incense in the
holy place.

THE ALTAR OF SACRIFICE

Morning and evening the priest offered a lamb upon this altar for the sins of
Israel. As long as the Hebrew sanctuary and temple stood, there was never a
time when the fire was not burning. This was the daily burnt offering.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 33 of 267
"Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs of the first year, day by
day continually [tahmid]. 39 One lamb you shall offer in the morning and the
other lamb you shall offer at twilight.” (Exodus 29:39)

The sacrifice of the lamb, of course, represented the death of Jesus Christ on the
cross (John 1:29; 1 Peter 1:19; Revelation 13:8). The priest offered the sacrifice
daily or continually, morning and evening, thus indicating that the death of
Jesus has enduring value. He died once-for-all and never needs to die again!

Hebrews 7:26, 27 brings out the enduring benefits of this one and only
sacrifice of Christ:

“For such a High Priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled,
separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens; 27 who does not
need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for His own sins and
then for the people's, for this He did once for all when He offered up Himself.”

Hebrews 9:25-26, KJV underlines the same fact:

“Not yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the
holy place every year with the blood of others; for then must he often have
suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world
hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is appointed
unto men once to die, but after this the judgment: So Christ was once offered to
bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second
time without sin unto salvation.”

The Roman Catholic dogma of the sacrifice of the mass counterfeits the once-
for-all sacrifice of Christ on the cross. According to Roman Catholic dogma, the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 34 of 267
priest sacrifices Jesus repeatedly in every sacrifice of the Mass. Instead of
looking to the Lamb of God who presents the blood of His once-for-all sacrifice
in heaven, the Roman Catholic papacy teaches believers to look at the wafer
host where, supposedly, the real body of Jesus in its totality (ubiquity) is
present. Instead of coming boldly to Jesus at the throne of grace in heaven to
claim His once-for-all and sufficient sacrifice, Roman Catholic priests teach the
faithful that the host nourishes them because they are feeding on the literal
body of Jesus on earth.

In fact, the priests store the host in a flower-like artifact called the Tabernacle.
At the center of the artifact is the circular wafer host, and coming forth from
the edges of the host are the rays of the sun. When the priest brings the
Tabernacle before the congregation, he teaches them to bow and worship the
host. This is simply a deceitful system of sun worship.

Furthermore, Roman Catholic theology teaches that the priest on earth takes
over the power and prerogatives of Jesus. In the Roman Catholic view, when the
priest pronounces the words of consecration hoc est corpus meum (‘this is my
body’) the wafer is no longer a wafer but rather the real physical body of Jesus.
Roman Catholic theology teaches that when the priest pronounces these words,
he transubstantiates the host into the real body of Jesus. That is to say, the
earthly priest supposedly has the power to create His Creator! This is
blasphemy to the fullest degree.

St. Alphonsus Liguori, one of the 33 theological doctors in the history of the
Roman Catholic Church, wrote about the supposed transubstantiating power of
the priest:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 35 of 267
“Thus the priest may, in a certain manner, be called the creator of his Creator,
since by saying the words of consecration, he creates, as it were, Jesus in the
sacrament, by giving him a sacramental existence, and produces him as a victim
to be offered to the eternal Father. As in creating the world it was sufficient for
God to have said, Let it be made, and it was created—He spoke, and they were
made—so it is sufficient for the priest to say, ‘Hoc est corpus meum,’ and behold
the bread is no longer bread, but the body of Jesus Christ. ‘The power of the
priest,’ says St. Bernardine of Sienna, ‘is the power of the divine person; for the
transubstantiation of the bread requires as much power as the creation of the
world.” St. Alphonsus de Liguori, Dignity and Duties of the Priest or Selva, pp. 33-
34.

THE TABLE OF SHOWBREAD

The table of the showbread contained two stacks of six loaves of unleavened
bread. The number twelve indicated that there was sufficient bread to feed
every person of the twelve tribes of Israel. God called this bread the ‘continual
bread’ (tahmid) because it was available continually to satisfy the spiritual
needs of Israel.

“And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue, and put
thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and covers to cover withal: and
the continual [tahmid] bread shall be thereon.” (Numbers 4:7, KJV)

What does the showbread in the holy place of the sanctuary represent? The
answer is that bread is a symbol of the Word of God:

“For as the rain comes down, and the snow from heaven, and do not return there,
but water the earth, and make it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 36 of 267
sower and bread to the eater, 11 So shall My word be that goes forth from My
mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it
shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it.” (Isaiah 55:10-11)

When Satan tempted Jesus to turn stones to bread in the wilderness, Jesus
compared bread with the Word:

“Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the
mouth of God.” (Matthew 4:4; see also Deuteronomy 8:3-4).

After Jesus fed five thousand men with only five loaves of bread and two fishes,
He made a very controversial remark:

“Then Jesus said to them, ‘Most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of
the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you.’” (John 6:53)

Roman Catholics use this text to teach that in each mass believers eat the real
flesh of Jesus and the priest drinks His real blood! Is this what Jesus meant? Of
course not! Jesus explained the meaning of His own remark:

“It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak
to you are spirit, and they are life.” (John 6:63)

That is to say, the words of Jesus have power to nourish our spiritual life. As
literal bread sustains physical life, the Word of God sustains spiritual life.
Spiritually speaking, when we study the Word we assimilate Jesus and he
becomes flesh of our flesh and bone of our bones. The ‘ingested’ Word of God
cleanses our life and gives us the victory over sin. David understood the
cleansing power of the word:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 37 of 267
“How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word.
10 With my whole heart I have sought You; Oh, let me not wander from Your


commandments! 11 Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin
against You.” (Psalm 119:9-11)

Jesus taught the same truth to His disciples:

“You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.” (John
15:3)

The apostle Paul added his testimony when he wrote that the Word cleanses
and sanctifies the church:

“Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself
for her, 26 that He might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by
the word.” (Ephesians 5:25, 26)

Eating a literal wafer certainly has no power to spiritually feed and transform
us. The ‘ingested’ Word cleanses our lives from sin.

So, what does the table of the showbread teach us? There are at least three
lessons:

    The bread represents Jesus as contained in the written Word of God.

    The bread is continually available for all of God’s people.

    If assimilated, the word will nourish our spiritual life and provide victory
        over sin.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 38 of 267
In what sense did the little horn cast down the meaning of the table of the
showbread? The answer is not difficult to find. Roman Catholicism substituted
the traditions and philosophies of men in place of the Word of God. The word
of a supposedly infallible magisterium was placed above a ‘thus saith the Lord’.

The number of unbiblical and anti-biblical traditions in Roman Catholicism is
legion. Here are some: Purgatory, limbo, celibacy, auricular confession, the
immortality of the soul, an eternally burning hell, lent, processions, the mass,
relics, canonization of saints, the rosary, bowing before images, the immaculate
conception, the assumption of Mary, baptism of infants by aspersion, novenas,
the observance of Sunday, etc.

What was the result of these traditions replacing the Word of God? Spiritual
malnutrition and a moral laxity that made the pagan Romans look like saints! It
is no coincidence that the third and fourth seals of Revelation describe this
period as one of famine for the Word of God (see, Revelation 6:5-8). In effect,
during the period of the third horse (the period of Constantine) the Church
assimilated the unbiblical teachings and practices of the pagans and the result
under the fourth horse (the 1260 years of papal dominion) was a life
threatening scarcity of bread—famine!

This is also the period of the fourth church of Revelation. Under this church,
Jezebel the harlot was in control. During this period of 1260 years, there was
no dew or rain and as a result, there was famine for the word of God.
(Revelation 2:20; 11:3, 6; 12:6, 14; cf. Amos 8:11-12).




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 39 of 267
THE CANDLESTICK

According to Leviticus 24:1-4, one of the roles of the High Priest was to trim the
wicks and replenish the oil in the seven-branched candlestick in the holy place.
Thus, he would make sure that the light of the candlestick burned continually.

“Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 2 "Command the children of Israel that
they bring to you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, to make the lamps burn
continually. 3 Outside the veil of the Testimony, in the tabernacle of meeting,
Aaron shall be in charge of it from evening until morning before the Lord
continually; it shall be a statute forever in your generations. 4 He shall be in
charge of the lamps on the pure gold lampstand before the Lord continually.”
(Leviticus 24:1-4)

What did the seven-branched candlestick symbolize? Let us interpret the
symbols:

    The number seven represents fullness.
    The oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit.
    The candlesticks represent the seven churches.

What does the candlestick itself represent? Revelation 1 provides the clear
answer. The seven-branched candlestick represents seven stages in the history
of the Christian church from the days of the apostles until the end of time:

“The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands
which you saw are the seven churches.” (Revelation 1:20)




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 40 of 267
Ellen White explained the meaning of the seven candlesticks:

“The names of the seven churches are symbolic of the church in different periods
of the Christian Era. The number 7 indicates completeness, and is symbolic of the
fact that the messages extend to the end of time, while the symbols used reveal
the condition of the church at different periods in the history of the world.”
Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 585

Thus, the candlestick represents the witness of the church to the world
through the power of the Holy Spirit in seven consecutive periods of
Christian history. The period of papal dominion was one of darkness. The light
of the church shone but dimly for it was ‘the dark ages’. At times, it looked like
the light of the church was about to be extinguished. Particularly during the
period of Thyatira, the light burned dim.

THE GOLDEN ALTAR OF INCENSE

The golden altar upon which the high priest offered the incense was ‘the altar
of perpetual or continual (tahmid) incense’ because the High Priest burned it
on the altar morning and evening continually.

What did the incense represent? The incense upon the altar bears a relationship
with the prayers of the congregation. Luke 1:8-11 tells us that while Zacharias
went into the holy place of the temple to offer incense, the people were praying
to God outside:

“So it was that while he [Zacharias] was serving as priest before God in the order
of his division, 9 according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn
incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. 10 And the whole multitude of


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 41 of 267
the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. 11 Then an angel of the
Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense.”

The psalmist also discerned the link between incense and prayer:

“Let my prayer be set before You as incense, the lifting up of my hands as the
evening sacrifice.” (Psalm 141:2)

However, although the incense bears a relationship with our prayers, the
incense is not symbolic of our prayers. Revelation 8:3, 4 tells us that the angel
mingles the incense with the prayers of the saints upon the altar:

“Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He
was given much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all the saints
upon the golden altar that was before the throne. 4 And the smoke of the incense,
with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God from the angel's hand.”
(Revelation 8:3-4)

Ellen White explained the beautiful symbolism of the prayers mingled with
incense:

“There is an inexhaustible fund of perfect obedience accruing from his
obedience. In heaven, his merits, his self-denial and self-sacrifice, are treasured
up as incense to be offered up with the prayers of his people. As the sinner's
sincere, humble prayers ascend to the throne of God, Christ mingles with
them the merits of his life of perfect obedience. Our prayers are made fragrant
by this incense. Christ has pledged himself to intercede in our behalf, and the
Father always hears his Son. Pray then; pray without ceasing; an answer is sure
to come. Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, October 30, 1900.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 42 of 267
Thus, the incense represents the merits of Jesus’ obedience that He mingles
with the prayers of His people. The incense makes our prayers acceptable
before the Father.

Significantly, the veil that divided the holy from the most holy was directly in
front of the altar and beyond the veil stood the ark of covenant, a symbol of
the throne of God. When the priest burned the incense on the golden altar, the
smoke ascended over the curtain and entered the presence of God beyond the
veil. The veil contained a beautiful embroidery of angels, representing the fact
that they take the prayers of the saints to Jesus and combined with His merits,
the prayers enter the very presence of God. This is the meaning of the ladder
that Jacob saw in his dream (see, Genesis 28:11-12 and John 1:51).

In what sense, then, did the little horn take away this function from the Prince?
Roman Catholicism has established a counterfeit priesthood to whom the
faithful confess their sins. That is to say, instead of the faithful directing their
prayers to Jesus in heaven for forgiveness, they utter them to a human priest
on earth who cannot forgive. In this way, the little horn casts down the
intercessory ministry of Jesus in heaven and places it on earth!

Even further, the faithful in Roman Catholicism offer their petitions to Mary
and the saints instead of to Jesus. In consequence, the attention of the faithful
shifts away from Jesus who can truly hear their petitions and forgive their sins.

The Bible is clear that there is ‘one mediator between God and men, the man
Christ Jesus’ (1 Timothy 2:5). Jesus assured us that He is ‘the way, the truth and
the life’, and that no man comes unto the father except by Him (John 14:6). The
apostle Paul wrote in Romans 8:34 that Jesus ‘makes intercession for us.’


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 43 of 267
Furthermore, in words that are impossible to misunderstand, the book of
Hebrews tells that Jesus ‘is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to
God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them.’
(Hebrews 7:25). 1 John 2:1 tells us that ‘we have an advocate with the Father,
Jesus Christ the righteous.’

Why do we need mere human intermediaries when we can come boldly to the
throne of grace through Jesus, the God-Man? The confessional in Roman
Catholicism focuses the attention of people upon a man on earth instead of
directing them to Christ in heaven.

The vision of Daniel 8 portrays a ram with two horns (verses 3-4), a he goat
with a notable horn and four horns that came out after the notable horn was
broken (verses 5-8). Then a little horn attacked the host (verse 10) and finally
the Prince of the host (verse 11).

The angel interpreter at the end of the vision explained that the two-horned
ram represents the Medes and Persians (verse 20). He then stated that the he-
goat represents Greece and its notable horn its first king (verse 21). Next, he
informed Daniel that the four horns represent the divisions of Greece after the
death of its first king (verse 22). Finally, he explained that a king would arise
(verse 23) who would “destroy the mighty and the holy people” (verse 24) and
‘stand up against the Prince of princes’ (verse 25).

Even a passing glance at Daniel 8 indicates that “the host and the stars of heaven”
in the vision is found in the same identical place as “the mighty and holy people”
in the explanation of the vision. Thus, the ‘stars’ represent God’s people.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 44 of 267
In summary, Daniel 8 describes two princes that are struggling for the souls of
human beings. One of them performs a continual ministry of salvation in the
heavenly sanctuary by pleading the blood of His one and only sacrifice before
the Father (the altar of sacrifice). He feeds His people with the Word of God (the
table of showbread), keeps the light of the church burning by the power of the
Holy Spirit (the candlestick) and forgives those who come to Him in penitence
and prayer (the golden altar of incense).

The other prince, unable to usurp the heavenly ministry of the Prince,
establishes a counterfeit continual ministry (the mass, tradition, the
confessional, the pope) in the earthly temple—the church (see 2 Thessalonians
2:3-4). By getting people on earth to focus on his counterfeit ministry, the little
horn/king of the north helped by the armies, casts down the place of the
sanctuary and deprives human beings from discerning the saving work of
Christ! Without being able to discern the saving work of Christ, souls perish in
sin!

‘. . . they [the king of the north and the armies that aid him] shall place the
abomination of desolation. . .’

This phrase is parallel to Daniel 8:23 where the little horn, with the aid of his
host, set up the ‘transgression of desolation.’ The Hebrew word ‘desolation’ is
common in the Old Testament (Jeremiah. 12:11; 33:10; Leviticus 26:31-32;
Daniel 9:17, 18, 26, 27; 12:11) and frequently refers to the trampling of
Jerusalem by the pagan idolatrous nations because of Israel’s unfaithfulness.

The equivalent Greek word appears in Matthew 23:38 where Jesus told the
Jewish leaders, ‘your house is left unto you desolate,’ Matthew 24:15 uses the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 45 of 267
word as well. There Jesus spoke about the ‘abomination of desolation’ spoken
of by Daniel the prophet.

It is well known that Matthew 24 has a dual fulfillment, the first of which was
the destruction of the literal city of Jerusalem because of its rejection of the
Messiah (Matthew 24:1-3; Daniel 9:26-27) and the second that carries us well
into the Christian dispensation (referred to in Luke 21:24B and Revelation
11:2). The Revelation passage tells us that ‘the holy city [the true church] shall
they [the papacy and the civil powers] tread under foot forty and two
months.’ The beast from the sea did this trampling (Revelation 13:5). During
this period, the Roman Catholic papacy allied itself with the political states of
Europe from 538-1798 to hide the work of Christ in the heavenly sanctuary and
to trample upon God’s people. Daniel 11:31 describes this period of Christian
history.

The Old Testament consistently uses the word ‘abomination’ to describe
idolatry. We find a notable example in Ezekiel 8:16-18 where the prophet links
‘abomination’ with idolatry in general and sun worship in particular. In the
succeeding context of the Ezekiel passage, God predicted that these
abominations would lead to the desolation of Jerusalem. Thus, the ‘abomination
of desolation’ already existed in the days of Israel immediately before the
Babylonian captivity and foreshadows the abomination of desolation that
Christ spoke of in Matthew 24.

Ellen White explained that the abomination of desolation has three
dimensions:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 46 of 267
The first dimension: The Roman standards

“When the idolatrous standards of the Romans [which contained an eagle
and a golden wreath representing the sun god Mithra] should be set up in
the holy ground, which extended some furlongs outside the city walls, then the
followers of Christ were to find safety in flight. When the warning sign should be
seen, those who would escape must make no delay. Throughout the land of Judea,
as well as in Jerusalem itself, the signal for flight must be immediately obeyed.
He who chanced to be upon the housetop must not go down into his house, even
to save his most valued treasures. Those who were working in the fields or
vineyards must not take time to return for the outer garment laid aside while
they should be toiling in the heat of the day. They must not hesitate a moment, lest
they be involved in the general destruction.”                   Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 25

The second dimension: The papacy during the 1260 years

Significantly, the papacy had the audacity to tamper with God’s Law by
obscuring the second commandment and by changing the day of worship from
Sabbath to the day of the sun. Thus, the abomination of desolation was set up
during the 1260 years by idolatry in general and by Sunday keeping more
specifically. Regarding this period of church history, Ellen White wrote:

“To afford converts from heathenism a substitute for the worship of idols, and
thus to promote their nominal acceptance of Christianity, the adoration of
images and relics was gradually introduced into Christian worship. The decree
of a general council [Second Council of Nice, A. D. 787] finally established this
system of idolatry. To complete the sacrilegious work, Rome presumed to


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 47 of 267
expunge from the law of God the second commandment, forbidding image
worship and to divide the tenth commandment, in order to preserve the number.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, 1888 edition, p. 51

The papacy instituted many abominations (idolatrous practices) during the
period of its dominion (see Revelation 17:4). However, the greatest
abomination was when it attempted to change the day of worship from Sabbath
to Sunday during the 1260 years. It is significant that Ellen White repeatedly
refers to Sunday as the idol Sabbath. The papal change in the Law and its
enforcement with the aid of the political power is the broader fulfillment of the
abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel. It stood in the
Christian Church where it ought not to be!

Ellen White also referred to Sunday observance as the wine in the harlot’s cup
of abomination:

“But the question of Sabbath and Sunday observance is to be agitated
everywhere and the deceptions of Satan will flood the world. The man of sin has
instituted a spurious sabbath and the Protestant world has taken this child of
the papacy and cradled and nurtured it. Satan means to make all nations drink of
the wine of the wrath of the fornication of Babylon. Men are binding themselves
together in bonds of union to show their disloyalty to the God of heaven. The first
day of the week is to be exalted and presented to all for observance. Shall we be
partakers of this cup of abomination? Shall we bow to the authorities of earth
and despise God?” Ellen G. White, Review and Herald, April 15, 1890




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 48 of 267
The end time Abomination of Desolation

However, this abomination of desolation that the papacy set up during the 1260
years also has a future dimension. Ellen White wrote that the enactment of the
national Sunday law by the United States in the future would be the
eschatological abomination of desolation:

Ellen White compared the abomination of desolation at the end with the setting
up of the standards when the Roman legions surrounded the literal city of
Jerusalem:

“As the approach of the Roman armies was a sign to the disciples of the
impending destruction of Jerusalem, so may this apostasy be a sign to us that the
limit of God's forbearance is reached, that the measure of our nation's iniquity is
full, and that the angel of mercy is about to take her flight, never to return. The
people of God will then be plunged into those scenes of affliction and distress that
prophets have described as the time of Jacob's trouble. The cries of the faithful,
persecuted ones ascend to heaven. And as the blood of Abel cried from the ground,
there are voices also crying to God from martyrs' graves, from the sepulchers of
the sea, from mountain caverns, from convent vaults: "How long, O Lord, holy and
true, dost Thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?"
Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, p. 451

“It is no time now for God's people to be fixing their affections or laying up their
treasure in the world. The time is not far distant, when, like the early disciples, we
shall be forced to seek a refuge in desolate and solitary places. As the siege of
Jerusalem by the Roman armies was the signal for flight to the Judean
Christians, so the assumption of power on the part of our nation in the decree


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 49 of 267
enforcing the papal sabbath will be a warning to us. It will then be time to leave
the large cities, preparatory to leaving the smaller ones for retired homes in
secluded places among the mountains. And now, instead of seeking expensive
dwellings here, we should be preparing to move to a better country, even a
heavenly. Instead of spending our means in self-gratification, we should be
studying to economize. Every talent lent of God should be used to His glory in
giving the warning to the world.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church,
volume 5, pp. 464, 465

As stated before, the Bible links the word ‘abomination’ with idolatry. In what
sense is Sunday worship idolatrous? Let us examine several statements where
Ellen White links the observance of Sunday with idolatry:

“The Sunday idol is set up as was this image [in Daniel 3]. Human laws demand
that it be worshiped as sacred and holy, thus putting it where God's holy Sabbath
should be. The Protestant world has set up an idol sabbath in the place where
God's Sabbath should be [the abomination of desolation is set up where it
ought not be], and they are treading in the footsteps of the Papacy.” Ellen G.
White, Manuscript Releases, volume 12, pp. 219, 220

Ellen White wrote that there are idolaters, even among professed Christians:

“Among professed Christians there are idolaters, men and women who are not
sealed by God. Many have subverted the Christian faith into idolatry, giving to a
man-made institution the glory and honor that God requires for His Sabbath
day, and compelling others to worship this idol. Such ones will surely be visited
with God's retributive judgments, which are to be poured out without mixture of



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 50 of 267
mercy [the seven last plagues] upon the unrepentant despisers of God's law.”
Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 19, p. 244

“Sunday keeping is not yet the mark of the beast, and will not be until the decree
goes forth causing men to worship this idol sabbath.” Ellen G. White, The Faith
I Live By, p. 286

“No law has ever been made to exalt the idol sabbath but that Satan has taken a
leading part in its enactment and its enforcement. Every law for the elevation of
Sunday has a direct reference to the fourth commandment. Every move that has
been made to enforce its observance is for the purpose of exalting the man of sin
above God and above all that is worshiped. Satan would have us exalt the idol
sabbath, but we cannot do it, for it would be disloyalty to God.” Ellen G. White,
The Review and Herald, April 29, 1890

“Satan has taken the world captive. He has introduced an idol sabbath,
apparently giving to it great importance. He has stolen the homage of the
Christian world away from the Sabbath of the Lord for this idol sabbath. The
world bows to a tradition, a man-made commandment. As Nebuchadnezzar set
up his golden image on the plain of Dura, and so exalted himself, so Satan exalts
himself in this false sabbath, for which he has stolen the livery of heaven.” Ellen
G. White, The Review and Herald, March 8, 1898

“Those who respect this human law will be favored, but those who will not bow to
the idol sabbath will have no favors shown them.” Ellen G. White, Maranatha, p.
195

“There is to be no compromise with those who are worshiping an idol sabbath.
We are not to spend our time in controversy with those who know the truth, and

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 51 of 267
upon whom the light of truth has been shining, when they turn away their ear
from the truth to turn to fables. I was told that men will employ every policy to
make less prominent the difference between the faith of Seventh-day Adventists
and those who observe the first day of the week. In this controversy, the whole
world will be engaged, and the time is short. This is no time to haul down our
colors.” Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume 2, p. 385

“Under his guidance the Christian world has made void the law of God by tearing
down the Seventh-day Sabbath, and exalting in its stead a common working day.
As men depart further and further from God, Satan is permitted to have power
over the children of disobedience. He hurls destruction among men. There is
calamity by land and sea. Property and life are destroyed by fire and flood. Satan
resolves to charge this upon those who refuse to bow to the idol that he has set
up. His agents point to Seventh-day Adventists as the cause of the trouble. "These
people stand out in defiance of law," they say. "They desecrate Sunday. Were they
compelled to obey the law for Sunday observance, there would be a cessation of
these terrible judgments." Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, July 16, 1901

“History [the history of Esther] will repeat itself. In this age, the test will be on
the point of Sabbath observance. The same masterful mind that plotted against
the faithful in ages past, is now at work to gain control of the falling churches,
that through them he may condemn and put to death all who will not worship the
idol sabbath.” Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, February 22, 1910

“An idol sabbath has been set up, as the golden image was set up in the plains of
Dura. And as Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, issued a decree that all who
would not bow down and worship this image should be killed, so a proclamation


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 52 of 267
will be made that all who will not reverence the Sunday institution will be
punished with imprisonment and death. Thus, the Sabbath of the Lord is trampled
underfoot. However, the Lord has declared, "Woe unto them that decree
unrighteous decrees, and write grievousness which they have prescribed" [Isa.
10:1]. [Zeph. 1:14-18; 2:1-3, quoted.] Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume
14, p. 91

Ellen White also wrote that we must to be tactful in the way we tear down this
idol ‘sabbath’:

“If we counsel them not to respect the idol sabbath exalted to take the place of
the Sabbath of the Lord our God, then instruct them in this matter in a quiet way
and encourage no defying of the law powers in words or actions unless called to
do this for the honor of God to vindicate His downtrodden law. Let there be no
unnecessary act of arousing the combative spirit or passions of opponents.”
Selected Messages, volume 3, p. 395

“The Sabbath question is one that will demand great care and wisdom in its
presentation. Much of the grace and power of God will be needed to cast down
the idol that has been erected in the shape of a false sabbath. Lift up the standard,
lift it up, higher and still higher. Point the people to the twentieth chapter of
Exodus, in which the law of God is recorded.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, volume 9, pp. 211, 212

Comments on Daniel 11:32

‘. . . and such as do wickedly against the covenant. . .’




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 53 of 267
Those who do wickedly against the covenant are the ones who lend arms to the
king of the north. Thus, the first part of verse 32 adds to the idea of verse 31.
The thought is that the king of the north would get the aid of ‘arms’ to do
wickedly against the covenant.

What is the meaning of the expression ‘shall do wickedly against the covenant’?

As we have already seen, the king of the north represents the same power as
the little horn. This being the case, it will help us to go back to Daniel 7 and 8 to
see how the little horn, along with the state, acted wickedly against the
covenant.

A close examination of the Covenant reveals that it consisted of two interrelated
parts, one eternal and the other temporary:

    God’s eternal Covenant Law (Deuteronomy 4:12-13)
    The temporary Covenant ceremonial system (Deuteronomy 31:14-16;
       Matthew 26:26-28).

The transgression of the Covenant Law made the Covenant ceremonial system
necessary. Daniel 7 tells us that the little horn attempted to change the
Covenant Law (Daniel 7:25) and Daniel 8, tells us that the same horn, with the
aid of the state, usurped Christ’s exclusive functions as sacrifice and High Priest.
The horn trampled upon the covenant sanctuary and the covenant people (see
what was included under the two covenants in Hebrews 8-9). In short, the king
of the north (or the little horn) and his cohorts acted wickedly against the
covenant Prince, the covenant people, the covenant sacrifice, the covenant
priesthood and the covenant law!



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 54 of 267
‘. . . shall he corrupt by flatteries. . .’

This phrase tells us that the king of the north would corrupt the political power.
Just imagine, the religious power corrupting the political power! How did this
happen?

Before we answer this question, it is important to remember that God has given
the political power a legitimate realm of authority to govern in civil matters
(Romans 13:1-9). The church also has its legitimate sphere of authority to
govern in spiritual matters. These two must function separately. However,
when the church seeks the aid of the state the result is the corruption of both!

The root of the Hebrew word chalaq (‘flatteries’) denotes something that is
slippery and smooth. In its extended meaning, the word refers to the use of
slithery deceit and treachery to gain an objective. The meaning of the word
involves using camouflage to hide the real intentions of the heart. In other
words, the king of the north is devious and deceptive in his intentions. A few
texts will help us better grasp the meaning of the word chalaq.

Daniel 11:21 describes a vile person who obtains the kingdom by flatteries (see
also verse 21) and verse 34 refers to those who join God’s people with flatteries,
that is, without showing their true colors. Proverbs 7:5 speaks of a strange
woman who flatters with her words (see also, Proverbs 6:24; 26:28; Psalm 5:9;
Psalm 36:1-3). Psalm 12:1-3 describes a person who flatters with the lips and
speaks with a ‘double heart’. This means that while such a person says one thing
with his lips, he hides just the opposite in his heart. Ezekiel 12:24 refers to the
flattering divinations of the false prophets. Clearly, this involves telling the



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 55 of 267
people what they want to hear rather than the truth. There is a lot of truth in
the expression: ‘Flattery will get you everywhere’.

This word ‘flatteries’ conjures up the image of a sly and cunning politician.
Frequently politicians make election promises when in their hearts they know
they will not be able to deliver half of what they promised. Another image that
comes to mind is the chameleon that uses camouflage to blend in with its
environment.

This depiction of the king of the north closely parallels that of the little horn in
Daniel 8:25:

‘And through his policy [cunning] also he shall cause craft [treachery, deceit]
to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and by peace
shall destroy many . . .’

2 Thessalonians 2:9-10 also brings out the deceptive character of the king of
the north. There the man of sin works with deceptive signs, miracles and
wonders. Thus, the text describes the king of the north as a crafty and sly
operator—a cunning diplomat! Even a hasty glimpse at medieval history
reveals that the Roman Catholic papacy indeed offered the political powers of
Europe stability in exchange for the throne (Revelation 13:2) and yet delivered
poverty, ignorance, disease and suffering.

Ellen White well described the deceptive nature of the papacy:

“It is a part of her policy to assume the character which will best accomplish her
purpose; but beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon she conceals




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 56 of 267
the invariable venom of the serpent.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.
571

‘. . . but the people who do know their God. . .’

The word ‘but’ here indicates a contrast between those who do wickedly
against the covenant and those who know their God. Now, if the king of the
north and his cohorts do wickedly against the covenant, then we would expect
God’s people in contrast to do righteously in favor of the covenant. That is to
say, the text describes both groups in terms of their attitude toward the
covenant.

The meaning of the word ‘know’ (yada) is rich in the Old Testament and here it
denotes much more than knowing of God or about God theoretically. It involves
knowing God with the heart rather than a mere intellectual assent. Yada is a
word that describes a relationship and it carries the connotation of personal
intimacy. The word appears quite frequently to describe the covenant
relationship that God desires to sustain with His people (see for example,
Deuteronomy 7:9) A few biblical examples of the word follow.

Genesis 4:1 uses the word to describe sexual intimacy between Adam and Eve.
Deuteronomy 34:10 tells us that no prophet arose after Moses whom God knew
face to face. It is obvious that this refers to much more than just seeing Moses’
physical face. In Jeremiah 4:22 God complained that Israel did not know Him.
Clearly, Israel knew much about God but they did not know or experience Him
as a friend. In contrast, Jeremiah 31:34 vividly describes the time when God
would write His law in the minds and hearts of His people and they would know
Him. In Hosea 13:4 God challenged Israel to know no other God than Himself.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 57 of 267
The Old Testament frequently links not knowing God with sinful ethical
behavior such as in Jeremiah 9:3. On the other hand, to know God means to act
ethically like Him (1 John 2:3-4; 4:8). John 17:3 underlines that we must know
God in order to receive eternal life.

‘. . . shall be strong. . .’

In order to be strong, a person must know God. The word ‘strong’ appears
frequently in the Old Testament and describes steadfastness in the face of stiff
opposition and apparently insurmountable obstacles. The word appears twice
in Daniel 11:5 to describe strength in military conquest. Some additional
examples follow.

God repeatedly uses the word to encourage Joshua to be strong in the conquest
of the land of Canaan (Joshua 1:6, 7, 9, 18; 10:25; 14:11; 17:13; Deuteronomy
31:6). As noted before, the word also describes strength and courage in the
midst of trying circumstances. For example, when King Senaquerib came
against Jerusalem, Hezekiah encouraged the people to be strong and of good
courage because the Lord was with them (2 Chronicles 32:7; see also, 2
Chronicles 15:7). The word appears when there is potential for discouragement
(Isaiah 35:4). After the captivity, when the rebuilding of the temple seemed to
be an impossible task, God told the people through Zechariah that they should
be strong (Zechariah 8:9, 13; see also, Haggai 2:4). The succeeding context of
Daniel 11:32 clearly indicates that those who knew their God would face fiery
trials for which they would need to be strong.

The expression ‘be strong’ appears in the context of the covenant relationship
between God and Israel. Deuteronomy 11:8 tells us:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 58 of 267
‘Therefore shall ye keep all the commandments which I command you this day
that ye may be strong, and go in and possess the land, whither ye go to possess it.’

Furthermore, the chronicler described God’s charge to David:

‘Only the Lord give thee wisdom and understanding, and give thee charge
concerning Israel, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORD thy God. Then
shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfill the statutes and judgments which
the LORD charged Moses with concerning Israel: be strong, and of good courage;
dread not, nor be dismayed.’ (1 Chronicles 22:12-13).

Both of these verses link the idea of being strong with keeping the
commandments of God, which are at the very foundation of the covenant (see
Deuteronomy 4:12, 13)!

‘. . . and do exploits. . .’

The italics in the KJV indicate that the word ‘exploits’ is not found in the original
text. As we shall see, the addition of this word in the King James Version is
unfortunate. The phrase simply says, ‘the people that do know their God shall
be strong and do.’ The obvious question is this: What will those who know their
God do?

The word ‘do’ appears to stand unqualified and seems to be left hanging in the
air (we shall see in verse 33 that the word ‘understanding’ also stands
unqualified). However, is it really?

We have already seen that the words ‘know’ and ‘be strong’ bear a close
relationship with the covenant. Likewise, the word ‘do’ (‘asah) frequently
describes the fulfillment of the ethical obligations required by the covenant.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 59 of 267
That is to say, ‘asah is an action word that describes obedience to the
stipulations of the covenant. Regarding this, Thomas E. McComiskey states:

“Aside from the numerous occurrences of the meaning ‘do’ or ‘make’ in a general
sense, ‘asah is often used with the sense of ethical obligation. The covenant
people were frequently commanded to ‘do’ all that God had commanded (Exodus
23:22; Leviticus 19:37; Deuteronomy 6:18, etc.) The numerous contexts in which
this concept occurs attest to the importance of an ethical response to God which
goes beyond mere mental abstraction and which is translatable into obedience
which is evidenced in demonstrable act.” (R. Laird Harris, editor. Theological
Wordbook of the Old Testament (Chicago: Moody Press, 1981), volume 2, p. 701)

Deuteronomy 4:5-6 underlines the importance of ‘doing’ the stipulations of
God’s covenant:

“Behold I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the LORD my
commanded me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go to possess it. Keep
therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and understanding in the sight
of the nations, which shall hear all these statutes, and say: ‘Surely this great nation
is a wise and understanding people.’”

Of particular importance is God’s declaration that ‘doing’ these statutes and
commandments will be Israel’s wisdom and understanding. Verse 33 will tell
us that God’s faithful people have understanding.

The sense of verses 32-33 then is this: The wicked king of the north and his
political allies will do wickedly against the covenant. In contrast, God’s people
will know the God of the covenant, will have covenant strength in the face of
incredible persecution, will obey the covenant stipulations and will therefore

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 60 of 267
have covenant understanding. To put it a different way: The people, who
know their God, will remain strong in God and will obey and understand Him.
Clearly then, the word ‘do’ is qualified by the word ‘covenant’. In verses 32, 33
the wicked stand in rebellion against the covenant while God’s faithful people
keep the covenant even in the face of persecution and death!

Comments on verse 33

‘. . . and they that understand among the people’

The ‘people’ here are those who are faithful to the covenant and those who
understand are their teachers. What does the word ‘understand’ mean? Louis
Goldberg answers:

“In many instances sakal is synonymous with bin [the word translated
‘understand’ in Daniel 9:23] . . . but there is a fine distinction. While bin
indicates ‘distinguishing between,’ sakal relates to an intelligent knowledge
of the reason. There is the process of thinking through a complex
arrangement of thoughts resulting in a wise dealing and use of good
practical common sense.” (R. Laird Harris, Theological Wordbook of the Old
Testament (Chicago: Moody Press, 1981), volume 2, p. 877)

The Old Testament uses the word sakal to describe an understanding of God
and of divine things and in some cases bears a relationship with the covenant.
Several examples follow.

1 Chronicles 28:19 tells us that David understood the temple pattern that God
showed him. Nehemiah 8:13 explains that the people understood the law
when it was read after the captivity. Psalm 24:2 tells us that those who seek

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 61 of 267
God understand. In Isaiah 41:20 God invited Israel to understand that He is
the Creator. In Psalm 119:99 David exclaimed that he understood more than
all his teachers because he meditated on God’s testimonies. Psalm 11:10 tells
us that those who keep God’s commandments have good understanding.
Jeremiah 9:24 explains that the only reason a person can boast is that they
understand and know the Lord.

Turning to the use of the word in the book of Daniel we find in chapter 9:13 that
the prophet was lamenting because Israel had gone into captivity. The reason
was that they did not understand God’s truth. Gabriel told Daniel (9:25) to
understand the prophecy of the seventy weeks. In Daniel 5:11, 12, 14 the
messenger informed Belshazzar that Daniel had understanding to interpret
divine dreams and visions. The same word appears in Daniel 11:35, a text we
will consider shortly (notice also, Daniel 12:10; Revelation 13:18; 17:9).

In Jeremiah 3:15 God promised to give Israel shepherds who would feed them
with wisdom and understanding. God, speaking through the same prophet,
exhorted His people to not glory in their riches, or power or wisdom but rather
in knowing and understanding Him. Psalm 47:7 encourages God’s people to
sing with understanding. Proverbs 21:16 warns that those who go astray from
the path of understanding will end up in company with the dead. Isaiah 44:18
explains that the wicked do not understand God.

‘. . . shall instruct many. . .’

The text does not tell us what the curriculum was or who the instructors were.
Therefore, the context must give us this information. In the context, we have
already seen that the covenant involves knowing God, being strong in the face


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 62 of 267
of opposition, doing what the covenant requires, and understanding divine
things. Therefore, all these elements must be included in the instruction given
by those who have understanding.

The word ‘instruct’ (bin) appears quite frequently in the book of Daniel and is
used there in the sense of ‘understanding’ (see Daniel 1:4, 17, 20; 2:21; 9:22,
23; 10:1, 11, 12, 14; 12:10). In the verse we are studying, the sense seems to be,
‘and they that understand among the people shall help many others understand.’

Deuteronomy 32:10 uses the word bin to describe how God instructed Israel in
the howling wilderness. Isaiah 40:13-14 asks the question, ‘who instructed him
[the LORD]?’ Furthermore, Proverbs 1:2, 5; 4:1, 5, 7 uses the words ‘instruction’
and ‘understanding’ interchangeably. The purpose of instruction is to impart
understanding.

‘. . . yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and by spoil, many
days. . .’

The word ‘they' refers to the instructors. The instructors of the people will
suffer a devastating persecution. Several parallels come to mind from other
passages in Daniel and Revelation:

    1. The parallel verses in Daniel 7:21, 25 and Daniel 8:24 describe the
        onslaught of the little horn against the saints. These texts tell us that the
        little horn destroyed the strong (those who understood and instructed)
        as well as the people of the saints (those who received instruction).
        However, Daniel 11 gives a description of the methods that the little horn
        used.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 63 of 267
   2. The sword and the captivity remind us of Revelation 13:10 where the
       beast led God’s people into captivity and killed them with the sword
       precisely during the 42 months.


   3. The little horn and the beast succeeded in these prophecies. Daniel 11
       tells us that the king of the north succeeded in leading God’s people into
       captivity, killing them with the sword, burning them with fire and
       confiscating their goods. Daniel 7:21, 25 and 8:24 likewise describe the
       success of the little horn as does Revelation 13:7.


   4. Especially intriguing is the reference to the persecution lasting for ‘days’
       (Daniel 11:33). As we can see from the italics, the translators of the KJV
       supplied the word ‘many’. Daniel 7:25 and Revelation 12:14 refer to this
       period as ‘time, times and the dividing of time’ and Revelation 13: 5 calls
       it the ‘forty-two months’. However, significantly, Revelation 12:6 refers
       to this period as 1260 days. Perhaps the King James Version translators
       were not far from the truth when they interpreted the days of Daniel
       11:33 as many days. The common denominator that these verses share
       is the context of oppression and persecution.


   5. Also of interest is the reference to the persecuted ones being ‘aided with
       ‘a little help’. This is precisely what Revelation 12:16 tells us that the
       earth did. We will come back to this idea when we study verse 34.

Verse 33 provides a strikingly precise description of the methods used by the
Roman Catholic Inquisition. Notice the following inspired words from the pen
of Ellen G. White in Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 196:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 64 of 267
“As the Romish clergy saw their congregations diminishing, they invoked the aid
of the magistrates, and by every means in their power endeavored to bring back
their hearers. . . . In vain both ecclesiastical and civil authorities [remember the
‘arms’ which were put at the service of the king of the north?] were invoked
to crush the heresy. In vain, they resorted to imprisonment, torture, fire, and
sword. Thousands of believers sealed their faith with their blood, and yet the work
went on. Persecution served only to extend the truth, and the fanaticism which
Satan endeavored to unite with it resulted in making clearer contrast between
the work of Satan and the work of God.”

Just a few remarks about the word ‘spoil.’ This word refers to ‘plunder’ or
‘booty’ acquired in a war (see, Numbers 31:11, 53; 2Chronicles 25:13; 14:14;
Ezra 9:7; Esther 9:10; Nahum 2:9). This brings to mind the Waldenses whose
homes and goods the papal crusaders plundered and confiscated. The
Inquisition regularly deprived ‘heretics’ of their property and gave it to those
who ratted on them.

“I was shown the Waldenses, and what they suffered for their religion. They
conscientiously studied the word of God, and lived up to the light that shone upon
them. They were persecuted, and driven from their homes; their possessions,
gained by hard labor, were taken from them, and their houses burned. They
fled to the mountains and there suffered incredible hardships.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, p. 371




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 65 of 267
Comments on verse 34

‘Now when they shall fall they shall be aided with a little help. . .’

Some have understood the ‘little help’ as a reference to the Protestant
Reformation and this is a definite possibility.

“The persecution of the church did not continue throughout the entire period of
the 1260 years. God in mercy to his people cut short the time of their fiery trial.
In foretelling the ‘great tribulation’ to befall the church, the Savior said, “Except
those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved; but for the elect's
sake those days shall be shortened.” [Matthew 24:22.] Through the influence of
the Reformation, the persecution was brought to an end prior to 1798.” Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, pp. 266, 267

Not much needs to be said about the phrase ‘and when they shall fall’ other than
that it is linked with the last part of verse 33. God’s people fell by sword, by
flame, by captivity and by spoil for many days. However, the text tells us that a
‘little help’ would come to their aid.

The question at this point is, what does the phrase ‘a little help’ mean? Did God
help them by providing them a place of refuge or did He help them by
suspending the persecution for a time. That is to say, is the help time related
or place related? On the other hand, is it possible that both are true? In order to
answer these questions, it would be well to compare some elements of
Revelation 12 and 13 with Daniel 11:32-34:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 66 of 267
            Daniel 11:32-34                                     Revelation 12:6, 13-16;
                                                                      13:5-7, 11
   1. The king of the north
      persecuted the people who                          1. The dragon/beast persecuted
      knew their God (11:33)                                the woman/saints (12:6, 13-
                                                            16; 13:7)
   2. The king of the north
      prevailed (11:34)                                  2. The serpent/beast prevailed
                                                            (12:13-16; 13:7)
   3. The people who know their
      God fall for many days                             3. The woman/saints fall for
      (11:33)                                               1260 days/42 months (12:6,
                                                            14; 13:5)
   4. Those who understand
      receive ‘a little help’ (11:34)                    4. The earth helped the
                                                            woman/saints (12:16; 13:11)

Now let us return to our original questions. An examination of the word ‘little’
in the Old Testament indicates that it is time related. Ezra 9:7 tells us that
Israel was ‘delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to
captivity, and to spoil, and to confusion of face, as it is this day.’ Clearly, this
verse uses very similar terminology to Daniel 11:33.

In verse 8, Ezra was more optimistic about the plight of Israel when he wrote:

‘And now for a little space [‘while’, KJV] grace hath been shewed from the LORD
our God to leave us a remnant to escape. . .’

Clearly, the word ‘little’ here has to do with time. It means a ‘short period of
time.’




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 67 of 267
Other verses in the Old Testament use the word ‘little’ with a temporal
connotation. Job speaks of the wicked as being exalted for a little while (Job
24:24). The psalmist tells us that ‘for yet a little while, and the wicked shall not
be. . . .’ (Psalm 37:10). Solomon, speaking of the sluggard says, ‘yet a little sleep,
a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep. . . .’ (Proverbs 6:10).
Referring to the pouring out of His wrath in Isaiah 10:25 the Lord says: ‘For yet
a little while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their
destruction’ (see also, Isaiah 26:20; 29:17). God promised in Hosea 1:4: ‘for yet
a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu. . . ’
And in Haggai 2:6 God promised to shake the heavens and the earth in a little
while. In all the above references the word ‘little’ stands unqualified, that is to
say, the word ‘while’ is added but the context clearly reveals that it should be
included in the text.

In the light of the previous discussion, the word ‘little’ in Daniel 11 most likely
refers to a period of time during which persecution will cease. However, is this
all there is to say? We know that Gabriel was the angel who expanded upon
Daniel 8 in Daniel 11 (Daniel 10:21; 11:2). We also know that Gabriel was the
angel who revealed the book of Revelation to John (Revelation 1:1; 19:10; 22:8-
9). This being the case, we would expect Gabriel to expand upon the meaning
of Daniel 11 in the book of Revelation. Furthermore, we would expect his
explanation in Revelation to harmonize perfectly with what he had previously
given in Daniel.

Both Daniel and Revelation clearly indicate that the king of the north/the little
horn/the beast would have two periods of dominion with a period of peace and
liberty in between. We can discern this clearly in Revelation 13 where the sea

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 68 of 267
beast was wounded (Revelation 13:10) only to have its deadly wound heal after
a certain period of time (Revelation 13:3, 12, 14). Prophecy indicates that the
beast (the United States as a nation) from the earth (the United States as a
territory) will change, so to speak, from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde helping the sea
beast regain its lost power.

We can discern the same two-stage pattern in Daniel 11:40 where the king of
the south attacks the king of the north at the time of the end after the ‘many
days’ of persecution (Daniel 11:40). But the prophecy goes on to explain that
the king of the north will rise to power once more and defeat the king of the
south as it regains its world dominion (Daniel 11:40-45). Revelation 6:9-11
presents the same scenario. These verses describe two groups of martyrs with
an interval of time in between. Revelation 12:13-15 brings out the same idea:
After the 1260 years of persecution, the earth helps the woman (Revelation
12:16) only to have persecution raise its ugly head some time later (Revelation
12:17).

We must conclude that the ‘little help’ given to those of understanding occurred
during the period of time when the United States provided refuge to those who
suffered persecution during the 1260 years. The territory of the United States
has given the true church a respite in time, during which persecution has
ceased.

Something we must keep in mind is that the territory of the United States
provided refuge for the pilgrims (1620 AD) long before a republic was
established. Thus, Revelation 12:16 refers to the territory of the United States
and Revelation 13:11 describes the moment when the government of the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 69 of 267
United States arose from that territory to establish its two foundational
principles of civil and religious liberty. Thus, the faithful received a little help
toward the end of the 1260 days. Both the Protestant Reformation and the
territory of what would become the United States gave the faithful persecuted
church a time of respite.

‘. . . but many shall cleave to them with flatteries. . .’

We will not say much about this phrase other than that the word ‘flatteries’ is
the same as in verse 32. It is a matter of fact that many who joined the Christian
cause were not sincere but rather joined out of convenience.

Comments on verse 35

‘. . . and some of them of understanding shall fall. . .’

Verse 35 expands upon the meaning of verse 33. While verse 33 tells us that
those of understanding fell by sword, by flame, by captivity and by spoil, verse
35 explains what their fall accomplished. That is to say, verse 35 explains that
their suffering was not without purpose.

‘. . . to try them. . .’

The word ‘try’ (tsaraph) has the basic meaning of refining or testing precious
metals by fire (see Psalm 12:6; 66:10; Proverbs 25:4; Isaiah 1:25). Its extended
meaning describes the testing or refining of God’s people in the furnace of
affliction.

For example, in the days of Gideon, God tried the men of Israel in order to
determine who was fit to go to war against the Midianites (Judges 7:4). In Psalm


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 70 of 267
26:2 David pled with the Lord to try or test his reins and his heart. In Isaiah
48:10 God said to Israel:

‘Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace
of affliction.’

In a similar vein, God described the remnant of His people in Zechariah 13:9:

‘I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined,
and will try [tsaraph] them as gold is tried. . .’

Malachi 3:2 describes the coming of the Messiah as a ‘refiner’s (tsaraph) fire’
who shall ‘sit as a refiner (tsaraph) and purifier of silver. . .’ Daniel 7 and 8 tell
us that the little horn persecuted the saints of the Most High (Daniel 7:21, 25;
8:24) but Daniel 11:35 explains what the end result of their suffering was: They
were purified and made white by their trials (see also, Revelation 3:10). Daniel
12:10 uses virtually the same terminology when it states:

“Many shall be purified, made white, and refined, but the wicked shall do
wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand, but the wise shall understand.”

In the midst of his severe time of trouble, Job understood the reason for what
he was experiencing:

“But He knows the way that I take; when He has tested me, I shall come forth as
gold.” (Job 23:10)

‘. . . and to purge and to make them white. . .’




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 71 of 267
The word ‘purge’ means ‘to make clean, to purify, to cleanse.’ We can discern
this meaning in texts such as Ezekiel 20:38; 2Samuel 22:27; Psalm 16:26;
Zephaniah 3:9 and Daniel 12:10.

How were those of understanding cleansed during the 1260 years? Did the
trials and suffering they experienced cleanse them or was there some other
cleansing agent? The book of Revelation ought to help us answer these
questions.

In Revelation 6:9-11 we catch a glimpse of a group of martyrs who were crying
out to God for justice (see Genesis 4) because the papacy was mowing them
down. Though God did not answer their plea immediately, He gave them white
robes and told them to wait until a future group of martyrs should die as they
did. It is important to realize that this scene occurred during the fifth seal.
During the fourth seal (the yellow horse of death) the beast from the sea/little
horn unjustly mowed them down (Daniel 7:21, 25; Revelation 13:7) and under
the fifth seal, they were crying out for justice and vengeance. However, God
delayed justice until the end-time martyrs died as they did (Revelation 19:2).
Remarkably, the fifth seal fits within the identical historical period as the period
described in Daniel 11:32-35—the ‘many days’.

We still must ask how God cleansed these martyrs. The answer is not hard to
find. The trial itself did not cleanse them. The idea of cleansing in the context of
tribulation is an important theme in the book of Revelation. For example,
Revelation 7:14 tells us regarding those who will go through the end-time
tribulation that they ‘have washed their robes and made them white in the




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 72 of 267
blood of the lamb (see also, Revelation 1:5; 1John 1:9).’ This text brings four
important ideas to view:

    Tribulation
    Blood
    Robes
    Cleansing

These four ideas are at the very center of Daniel 11:35.

We must include Revelation 12:11 in the picture. This text informs us that the
persecuted saints have overcome the slanderous accusations of Satan by the
blood of the lamb and by the word of their testimony and they did not love
their lives even unto death. Further, Revelation 19:7-8 describes the end-time
bride of the lamb. At first sight, it appears that the bride made her garments
white by her righteous deeds but a closer look reveals that her righteous deeds
came because of her trust in the lamb.

Based on the previous discussion we must conclude that the blood of the Lamb
purged those of understanding who went through the medieval tribulation (as
well as those who will go through the end-time tribulation). Expressed another
way, in the midst of persecution their characters were refined because they
trusted in the blood of Jesus.

‘. . . even to the time of the end. . .’

A more detailed study later (see our discussion of verse 40 below) will show
that the time of the end began when the 1260 years ended in 1798 AD. That is
to say, the time of the end began when the ‘many days’ of persecution for the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 73 of 267
church ended (see Daniel 7:25). Daniel 12:4 clearly describes the time of the
end as a period during which the knowledge of Daniel 8-12 would increase (for
further information read my study notes ‘Your Redemption Draweth Nigh’.

. . . ‘because it is yet for a time appointed. . .’

The ‘time appointed’ here are the 1260 days/42months/three and a half times.
This was the period during which God gave the saints into the hand of the little
horn/beast/king of the north (see Daniel 7:25; Revelation 13:5, 7; Daniel
11:33). This is the same period that God gave Jezebel to repent (Revelation
2:23).

The Old Testament uses the word mo`ed (‘appointed’) to describe a point or
period of time at which a pre-established or predetermined event will occur.
The word appears in Isaiah 1:14 and Numbers 9:2-3 to pinpoint the specific
time that God appointed for the celebration of the yearly feasts. Jeremiah 8:7
tells us that God laments that the stork knows her appointed times but His
people do not know their judgment. In Genesis 18:14 God promised that Sarah
would have Isaac at the time appointed. According to 1Samuel 13:11 Saul
offered the sacrifice at Gilgal because Samuel did not come within the days that
had been appointed. God informed the prophet Habakkuk that ‘the vision is yet
for an appointed time, but at the end, it shall speak and not lie: though it tarry,
wait for it because it will surely come, it will not tarry.’ (Habakkuk 2:3).

Outside the three uses of the word in chapter 11 (verses 27, 29, 35), Daniel 8:19
is of particular importance. When Gabriel came to explain the vision of chapter
8 to Daniel, he told him:



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 74 of 267
‘Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the last end [this is no longer
during the 1260 years] of the indignation [on the meaning of this word see
comments on verse 36 below]: for at the time appointed the end shall be.’

Even a cursory comparison of Daniel 8:23-25 with Daniel 11:32-39 reveals
some striking parallels. These parallels leave no room for doubt that the little
horn represents the same power as the king of the north. However, whereas
Daniel 11:31-39 describes the time appointed by God for the king of the north
to rule over the saints during the 1260 years, Daniel 8:19 takes us forward in
time to the moment which God has appointed for the same power to come to
its end with none to help him. We will amplify this detail in our analysis of verse
36.
Comments on Verse 36

‘And the king shall do according to his will. . .’

During this period of 1260 years, God allowed the king of the north to pretty
much do as he pleased. The saints, the law, and the sanctuary cultus on earth
would all be under his control. We remember the arrogance of the little horn in
chapters seven and eight. Significantly, the little horn of Daniel 8:9 is identified
later in the chapter as a king of fierce countenance (Daniel 8:23). Obviously, the
little horn is the king of the north!

‘. . . he shall exalt himself. . .’’

The Psalms frequently use the Hebrew word rum (‘exalt’) to describe the joyous
exaltation of God by His people. The word appears in connection with the idea




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 75 of 267
of praise and worship due to God because of His infinite greatness and
worthiness. Thus, the psalmist exclaimed:

‘Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at His footstool for He is holy.’ (Psalm
99:5; see also, verse 9).

Other texts contain the same central theme. The psalmist exclaimed, ‘Thou art
my God, I will exalt thee’ (Psalm 118:28). ‘O magnify the Lord with me, and let
us exalt his name together.’ (Psalm 34:3). ‘Be thou exalted, O God above the
heavens: and thy glory above all the earth.’ (Psalm 108:5; see also Psalm 57:5,
11).

No creature can claim the right to have other creatures exalt him. Only God can
exalt His creatures if he wishes to do so. ‘He who exalts himself will be humbled
and he who humbles himself will be exalted.’ The creature must humble himself
that God may exalt him (see Matthew 23:12; Philippians 2:5-11).

Yet at the very beginning, even before creation, there was a creature who
claimed the right to be exalted. Isaiah 14:12-14 describes the rebellion of
Lucifer. Verse 13 tells us that the first creature of God boastfully declared:

‘I will exalt (rum) my throne above the stars of God.’

Unable to exalt his throne above the angels in heaven, Lucifer set up a rival
throne on earth and placed his vice-gerent upon it, as the counterfeit king of the
north. Just as the Father in heaven placed his Son upon the throne as His vice-
gerent, so did Satan place his son of perdition upon the throne as his vice-
gerent. The apostle Paul referred to this when he wrote about the man of sin
sitting in the temple of God demanding worship. (2 Thessalonians 2:3-4).


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 76 of 267
‘. . . and magnify himself above every god. . .’

Only God deserves our magnification because He is our Creator: ‘Let the LORD
be magnified,’ exclaimed the psalmist (Psalm 35:27; see also Psalm 40:16).
When God intervened to deliver Israel from the invasion of Gog, the prophet
explained that God would magnify and sanctify Himself. However, no human
being or nation has a right to magnify himself/itself. Self-magnification by mere
creatures is the earmark of apostasy. Thus, Jeremiah tells us that God would cut
off Moab because it magnified itself against the Lord (Jeremiah 48:26; see also
verse 42).

Furthermore, when Babylon destroyed Jerusalem, Jeremiah prayed:

‘Oh Lord, behold my affliction: for the enemy hath magnified himself’
(Lamentations 1:9).

The very word ‘magnify’ that appears twice in Daniel 11:36, 37 with reference
to the king of the north, also appears in Daniel 8:11, 25 where we are told that
the little horn or ‘king of fierce countenance’ magnified himself against the
Prince of the host. Clearly, this power sought to steal the power and
prerogatives that belong only to God. How could we forget Paul’s words about
the man of sin ‘who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or
that is worshiped; so that he as God sits in the temple of God, showing himself
that he is God.’ (2 Thessalonians 2:4)

‘And shall speak marvelous things against the God of gods. . .’

The expression ‘marvelous things’ is actually the translation of a single Hebrew
word. In the majority of cases, the Old Testament word refers to the marvelous


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 77 of 267
creative and redemptive works of God (see Psalm 17:7; 78:12ff; 98:1-3; 139:14;
Zechariah 8:6-7). This means that the king of the north is a usurper of the power
and prerogatives that belong only to God. Psalm 105:2, 5 invites God’s people
to sing psalms unto the Lord and to talk of His wondrous works. Then verse 5
exhorts us to ‘remember His marvelous works that he hath done; his wonders
and the judgments of his mouth.’

We cannot fail to remember the boastful claims of the little horn of Daniel,
chapters seven and eight. Daniel 7 tells us that the little horn would speak ‘great
words against the Most High.’ This belligerent attitude is reflected in his
attempt to change God’s times and law. Daniel 8 tells us that the little horn
would attempt to usurp Christ’s high priestly work of salvation in the heavenly
sanctuary. The beast of Revelation 13 also comes to mind. Verse 5 informs us
that this beast would speak ‘great words and blasphemies.’ As we saw in our
detailed analysis of Daniel 7 (see, ‘Stephen P. Bohr’s Notes on Daniel 7’) the
Roman Catholic papacy fulfills this specification with undeniable precision.

‘. . . and shall prosper. . .’

Genesis 39:23 uses the word ‘prosper’ to describe the prosperity of Potiphar’s
house during Joseph’s tenure. The Bible tells us that the wicked oftentimes
prosper for a season (see, Jeremiah 12:1; Psalm 73:12) but in the end, they
receive their just reward. The little horn/king of the north succeeded in
oppressing God’s people but God will judge it (Daniel 7:9-10, 13, 14) and it will
come to its end with none to help (Daniel 11:45). Thus, things went well for the
king of the north, during the period of his dominion and will go well for him
once more before the consummation.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 78 of 267
Once again, we cannot fail to see the connection between the king of the north
and the little horn of Daniel 8 and 9. Daniel 7:21 tells us that the little horn
‘prevailed’ against the saints of the Most High and verse 25 tells us that the
saints were ‘given into his hand’ for a time, times and the dividing of time.
Daniel 8:12, 24 explains that the little horn ‘practiced and prospered’.
Revelation 13:7 explicitly states that God gave the beast power ‘to make war
with the saints, and to overcome them and that ‘power was given him over
all kindreds, and tongues and nations.’ Things did go well for the Roman
Catholic papacy until the French Revolution wounded it in 1798.

The links between the little horn (Daniel 7 and 8), the king of the north (Daniel
11), the man of sin (2 Thessalonians 2) and the beast (Revelation 13:1-10) leave
no doubt that they refer to the same power, the papacy:



    All of these powers rule last until Jesus establishes His eternal kingdom.
    In each case, these powers exalt themselves above God.
    In each case, these entities speak great words and blasphemies against
       the Most High.
    In each case, the powers prosper during the period of their dominion.
    In every case, the powers come to an ignominious and supernatural end
       with none to help.

‘. . . till the indignation be accomplished. . .’

Does the word ‘indignation’ here refers to the indignation that the king of the
north manifests against God’s people or the indignation of God against the king



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 79 of 267
of the north? Another question, when will this indignation be accomplished?
What do the words ‘indignation’ and ‘accomplished’ mean?

The Old Testament uses the word ‘indignation’ exclusively as a reference to the
outpouring of God’s wrath. Thus Daniel 11:36 is a reference to God’s wrath
against the king of the north. Speaking about the plagues of God upon Egypt, the
psalmist wrote:

‘He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation (zaam),
and trouble. . . .’ (Psalm 78:49)

Referring to the destruction of the Assyrian oppressors of Israel, God promised:

‘For yet a little while, and the indignation (zaam) shall cease, and mine anger
in their destruction.’ (Isaiah 10:25).

The prophet Jeremiah described God’s judgment upon historical Babylon:

‘The LORD hath opened his armory, and hath brought forth the weapons of His
indignation (zaam): for this is the work of the Lord God of hosts in the land of the
Chaldeans’ (Jeremiah 50:25).

However, the word not only describes historical manifestations of God’s wrath.
The word appears in many eschatological passages. In the imprecatory Psalms
God’s faithful people clamor to God to settle accounts with the wicked:

‘Pour out [notice that wrath is ‘poured out’] thine indignation (zaam) upon
them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them’. (Psalm 69:24)




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 80 of 267
Isaiah 13:5 describes God and His armies coming from ‘a far country, from the
end of heaven, even the LORD, and the weapons of His indignation (zaam), to
destroy the whole land.’

The ‘Little Apocalypse’ of Isaiah (Isaiah 24-27) encourages God’s people to seek
refuge in the final time of trouble:

‘Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee:
hide thyself as it were for little moment, until the indignation (zaam) be overpast.
For behold, the LORD cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the
earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more
cover her slain.’ (Isaiah 26:20-21).

Ellen White applied these verses to the final outpouring of God’s wrath:

“The Lord is a refuge for all who put their trust in Him. He bids them hide in Him
for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. He is soon to come out of
His place to punish the world for its iniquity. Then the earth shall disclose her
blood and shall no more cover her slain.” Ellen G. White, The Seventh-day
Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 967.

The Minor Prophets apply the word ‘indignation’ to final manifestation of God’s
wrath against the wicked. For example, Nahum 1:6 asks the question:

‘Who can stand before his indignation (zaam) and who can abide in the
fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown
down by him.’ [See Revelation 6:14-17].




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 81 of 267
Habakkuk 3 gives a powerful description of the second coming of Jesus. After
speaking of the sun and moon standing still in their habitation, the text
describes the destruction of the wicked:

‘Thou didst march through the land in indignation (zaam); thou didst thresh the
heathen in anger.’ (Verses 11-12).

Zephaniah 3:8 also points to the final manifestation of God’s wrath:

‘Therefore wait upon me, saith the LORD, until the day that I rise up to the prey:
for my determination is to gather the nations that I may assemble the kingdoms,
to pour upon them my indignation (zaam), even all my fierce anger: for all the
earth shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.’

We find in Daniel 8:19 a very important use of the word zaam. There the angel
Gabriel informs Daniel:

‘Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the last end of the indignation
(zaam); for at the time appointed the end shall be.’

This verse bears a clear connection with the last half of Daniel 11:36.

We must now turn to the meaning of the word ‘accomplished.’ The Hebrew
word ‘accomplished’ (kalah) means ‘to finish, accomplish, end’ (see, for
example, Genesis 2:1; Exodus 40:33; I Kings 6:22; 2 Chronicles 36:22; Jeremiah
4:27; Jeremiah 8:20, etc.) In several Old Testament passages, the word appears
in conjunction with the idea of God’s wrath or indignation ending or ceasing.
For example, when God promised to scatter Israel for her apostasy, He stated
‘thus shall mine anger be accomplished’ (kalah; 2 Chronicles 36:22) (see also,
Ezekiel 6:12; 7:8; 13:15; 20:8, 21; Lamentations 4:11).

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 82 of 267
In order to understand when the eschatological wrath of God will end, we must
turn to the New Testament, particularly the book of Revelation. The equivalent
Greek word for the Hebrew kalah is telos. This word is translated ‘end’
(Revelation 2:26) ‘filled up’ (Revelation 15:1), ‘finished’ (John 19:30;
Revelation 10:7; 11:7; 20:5) and ‘fulfilled’ (Revelation 15:8; 17:17; 20:3. See
also Revelation 6:17 where at the conclusion of the seventh plague, God says,
‘It is done’).

A careful study of Revelation 15:1, 8; 17:17 reveals that the wrath of God is
finished, ended, accomplished or filled up when the seven last plagues come to
an end. Thus, Daniel 11:36 points forward to the conclusion of the seven last
plagues. Though the primary theme of Daniel 11:31-39 is the 1260 years of
papal persecution, the last part of verse 36 momentarily carries us forward to
the time when the king of the north will come to his end with none to help him
as described in Daniel 11:45. Notably, when we use the expression ‘mission
accomplished’ we mean that the mission was finished, fulfilled or ended.

According to verses 31-39 the king of the north would persecute God’s people
and prosper for [1260] ‘days’ only to be wounded by the king of the south at the
time of the end (verse 40). After a temporary suspension of its power, the king
of the north would have a second stage of power and prosperity (Revelation
13:3) after which he would come to his end for the last time at the conclusion
of the seven last plagues.

In this context, we must understand Ellen White’s comment that much of the
history of Daniel 11:30-36 ‘will be repeated’ (see page 3 above). As noted
before, Ellen White was not saying that Daniel 11:30-36 has a dual fulfillment.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 83 of 267
What she is means is that ‘scenes similar to those described’ will occur. Why
will they be similar? Simply because when the king of the north (the papacy)
resurrects after the healing of its deadly wound, it will be the same power with
the same evil character that it had in the past. It will not have changed one iota
during its period of convalescence. It will have essentially the same character
and carry out the same actions as it did during the previous stage of its
existence only on a global stage. This is why I believe that Daniel 11:40-45
contains the eschatological repetition of the historical scenes described in
Daniel 11:31-39. Ellen White, ever in harmony with Scripture, concurs with
this view:

‘And let it be remembered, it is the boast of Rome that she never changes. The
principles of Gregory VII and Innocent III are still the principles of the Roman
Catholic Church. Had she but the power [that she lost in 1798], she would put
them in practice with as much vigor now as in past centuries. . . . Rome is aiming
to re-establish her power, to recover her lost supremacy. . . . She is silently
growing into power. Her doctrines are exerting their influence in legislative halls,
in the churches, and in the hearts of men. She is piling up her lofty and massive
structures in the secret recesses of which her former persecutions [not the
prophecy] will be repeated. Stealthily and unsuspectedly she is strengthening her
forces to further her own ends when the time shall come for her to strike.’ Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, p. 581

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed [these
restraints were put in place in 1798] and Rome be reinstated in her former
power, and there would speedily be a revival of her tyranny and persecution.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 564

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 84 of 267
“The Roman Church now presents a fair front to the world, covering with
apologies her record of horrible cruelties. She has clothed herself in Christlike
garments; but she is unchanged. Every principle of the papacy that existed in
past ages exists today. The doctrines devised in the darkest ages are still held.
Let none deceive themselves. The papacy that Protestants are now so ready to
honor is the same that ruled the world in the days of the Reformation, when men
of God stood up at the peril of their lives, to expose her iniquity. She possesses the
same pride and arrogant assumption that lorded it over kings and princes, and
claimed the prerogatives of God. Her spirit is no less cruel and despotic now than
when she crushed out human liberty and slew the saints of the Most High.’ Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 571

‘. . . for that which is determined shall be done. . .’

As we have seen in our study of Daniel 9:24, 26, 27, the Hebrew word charats
means ‘determined, decreed, decided.’ It describes an event that will occur on
a time schedule that God has previously determined (see, Job 14:5; Isaiah
10:23; 28:22). The Jerusalem Bible translation catches the nuance of word: ‘for
what has been decreed will certainly be fulfilled.’

It is clear that the power of the king of the north will not be absolute and
endless. God will have the final word. God allowed the king of the north to
exercise his dominion for 1260 in the past and God will allow it to rise in the
future. However, God will cut short its career at the end (Daniel 11:45).
According to Revelation 17:17, the beast, the harlot and the kings will agree for
a short time at the end, but only ‘until the words of God shall be fulfilled.’ God’s



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 85 of 267
words ‘are fulfilled’ or come to an end when he says, at the conclusion of the
seventh plague, ‘It is done.’ (Revelation 16:17)

Comments on Verse 37

In the last half of verse 36, Gabriel, for an instant, takes us to the very end of the
seven last plagues when the king of the north will come to his end with none to
help. However, in verse 37, Gabriel goes back and continues his discussion of
the 1260-year career of the papacy. It is obvious that verse 37 cannot be in
chronological continuity with the last part of verse 36!

‘. . . neither shall he regard the God of his fathers’

The word ‘regard’ here means ‘to pay heed’ (see Psalm 28:5; 94:7; Job 30:20)
That is to say, the king of the north would not pay heed to the God of his fathers.

The King James translators correctly understood the ‘God of his fathers’ as a
reference to the true God and for this reason they capitalized the word ‘God’.
This clearly indicates that the fathers or ancestors of the king of the north
originally worshiped the true God. In short, this means that the king of the north
fell away or apostatized from the God of his fathers. This indicates that the king
of the north represents an apostate Christian system that went astray from the
truth. Paul in 2 Thessalonians 2 predicted that after his death there would be a
‘falling away’ (the Greek word is apostasía. See also Acts 20:28-31).

Who are the ‘fathers’ whom the king of the north disregarded? In the Old
Testament, the fathers of Israel are the nation’s founders—Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob and the 12 sons of Jacob to whom God made the promises (Exodus 3:13,
15, 16; 1 Chronicles 29:18; Luke 1:55; John 8:39 Acts 3:13; 7:32). However, as

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 86 of 267
we have seen, Daniel 11:37 is describing events well into the Christian
dispensation. The question then is who were the founding fathers of the
Christian church? The answer is clear: the twelve apostles. Paul stated that the
church was built upon the ‘foundations’ of the apostles and the prophets
(Ephesians 2:20) and John saw that the foundations of the New Jerusalem
contained the names of the twelve apostles (Revelation 21:14). Ellen White
wrote regarding the identity of the ‘fathers’:

“As in the Old Testament the twelve patriarchs stood as representatives of Israel,
so the twelve apostles stand as representatives of the gospel church.” Ellen G.
White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 19

The picture is clear: The king of the north would go astray from the teachings
and practices of the apostles. Ellen White makes the following impressive
comparison between the apostasy of the Jewish church and the falling away of
the Papal church:

“The Pharisees had declared themselves the children of Abraham. Jesus told
them that this claim could be established only by doing the works of Abraham.
The true children of Abraham would live as he did, a life of obedience to God.
They would not try to kill One who was speaking the truth that was given Him
from God. In plotting against Christ, the rabbis were not doing the works of
Abraham. A mere lineal descent from Abraham was of no value. Without a
spiritual connection with him, which would be manifested in possessing the
same spirit, and doing the same works, they were not his children.

This principle bears with equal weight upon a question that has long agitated the
Christian world—the question of apostolic succession. Descent from Abraham


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 87 of 267
was proved, not by name and lineage, but by likeness of character. Therefore, the
apostolic succession rests not upon the transmission of ecclesiastical authority,
but upon spiritual relationship. A life actuated by the apostles’ spirit, the belief
and teaching of the truth they taught, this is the true evidence of apostolic
succession. This is what constitutes men the successors of the first teachers of the
gospel.” Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 466-467

Adam Clarke wrote:

“That God who sent the evangelists and apostles to preach the pure doctrine.
These true fathers of the Christian church, and their God, this church has not
regarded, but put councils, and traditions, and apocryphal writings in their
place.” (Adam Clarke's Commentary, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1996,
2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc.)

If the apostles resurrected today, they would die of a heart attack! They would
be unable to recognize the church they founded. The Roman Catholic Church
claims to have the successors of the apostles and yet they killed the saints of the
Most High during the dark ages as the Jewish establishment killed Jesus (as we
shall see in verse 38, Roman Catholicism allied itself with the state—the god of
forces—a god that the apostles never knew!). Furthermore, the teachings of
Roman Catholicism are diametrically opposed to the teachings of the apostles!

‘. . . nor the desire of women. . .’

The entire system described as the king of the north would disregard the desire
of women (cf. Isaiah 53:2; Haggai 2:7). What does this enigmatic expression
mean? How did the king of the north refuse to pay attention to the desire of
women? There are strong reasons to see in this a reference to the practice of

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 88 of 267
celibacy in Roman Catholicism. Even though Peter (Matthew 8:14-15), Paul
(probably), the deacons 1 Timothy 3:12), the elders (Titus 1:5-6), and the
bishops (1 Timothy 3:2, 4) of the early church were all married, Roman
Catholicism since the time of Gregory VII has forbidden marriage to the clergy.
We remember the warning of the apostle Paul:

‘Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from
the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils . . . Forbidding
to marry . . .’ 1 Timothy 4:1.

The Bible commentator Adam Clarke wrote:

“Both the Greek and Latin church, in their antichristian enactments, have
discouraged, and in several cases proscribed, marriage, under the pretense of
greater chastity, to the discredit of God's ordinance, and Christianity itself.”
(Adam Clarke's Commentary, Electronic Database. Copyright © 1996, 2003, 2005,
2006 by Biblesoft, Inc.)

In unequivocal words, Canon 10 of the Council of Trent states:

‘Whoever shall affirm that the conjugal state is to be preferred to a life of virginity
or celibacy, and that it is not better and more conductive to happiness to remain
in virginity or celibacy, than to be married, let him be accursed.’

‘. . . nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all. . .’

Once again we encounter the blasphemous boasts of the little horns of Daniel 7
and 8, of the beast of Revelation 13:1-10 and of the man of sin in 2
Thessalonians 2. In a previous study, we have provided irrefutable historical



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 89 of 267
evidence (see, ‘Stephen P. Bohr’s ‘Notes on Daniel’) to substantiate the fact that
the Roman Catholic system fits this description as a glove fits the hand!

Comments on Verse 38

‘. . . but in his estate shall he honor the God of forces. . .’

Although the King James translators capitalized the word God, the context
makes it obvious that the king of the north was not really honoring the true
God! We can legitimately translate the phrase ‘in his estate’ as ‘instead of’ or ‘in
place of’ as most modern versions do. In other words, instead of honoring the
God of his fathers, the king of the north would honor the god of forces. Who is
this god of forces?

The word ‘forces’ is the translation of the plural Hebrew word mauzim. The Old
Testament uses the word to describe the LORD as the fortress, shelter or refuge
of his people (see, Psalm 27:1; 31:2, 4; 43:2; 37:39; 89:13 [and its context of
verses 9-12]; Jeremiah 16:19; Nahum 1:7). Daniel 11 uses the word elsewhere
to describe a military fortress or stronghold (verses 7, 10, 19, 31). In still other
passages of the Old Testament, the word denotes a fortified city (Isaiah 17:9;
23:11). The word also describes human protection, such as in Isaiah 30:2, 3
where the translation of the word is ‘strengthen.’ The picture is that of a
political and military power that would help the king of the north.

‘. . . and a god whom his fathers knew not. . .’

In the light of the previous discussion, it seems like the King James Version
translation, ‘god of forces’ is a good one. What the text describes here is the
union of the king of the north with military forces—a union of church and state!

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 90 of 267
How different was the attitude of the apostles! The apostolic fathers did not use
the military strength of the state to accomplish their mission. They employed
the sword of the Spirit (Ephesians 6:17). Jesus Himself gave them their
marching orders (Acts 1:6-8). John 18:36-37 tells us that Jesus told Pilate that
if His kingdom were of this world, His disciples would fight to free Him. When
Peter drew the sword to defend Jesus, He commanded him put it away
(Matthew 26:51-52). In contrast, the apostate papal church appealed to the arm
of the state to punish dissenters and to compel unbelievers to become
Christians. This ‘god’ was unknown to the fathers!

‘. . . shall he honor with gold, and silver, and with precious stones and pleasant
things.

Babylon possess gold, silver, precious stones and pleasant things (Revelation
17:4). Daniel describes here a mutual relationship between church and state
(the harlot and the kings: Revelation 17:2) that mutually enriches both until the
kings hate the harlot and make her desolate and naked and eat her flesh and
burn her with fire (Revelation 17:15-17). Revelation 18:12-13 even gives an
expanded list of the pleasant things with which the harlot and the merchants of
the earth did business.

The king of the north would command great riches. He would be in control of
the world economy in such a way that he could use it to forbid buying and
selling to those who do not buy into his agenda.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 91 of 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 92 of 267
               THE PAPACY’S FUTURE CAREER
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr



Comments on Verse 39

“Thus he shall act against the strongest fortresses with a foreign god [the
foreign God has already been identified as the ‘god of forces’], which he shall
acknowledge, and advance its glory; and he shall cause them to rule over many,
and divide the land for gain.”

The ESV provides an even clearer translation of verse 39:

“He shall deal with the strongest fortresses with the help of a foreign god. Those
who acknowledge him he shall load with honor. He shall make them rulers over
many and shall divide the land for a price.”

The Old Testament word ‘divide’ refers to the distribution of land. In the
conquest of Canaan, Joshua distributed land but he did not do it for gain (Joshua
13:7; 18:10; Joshua 14:5; Numbers 26:55; see also 2 Samuel 19:29; Ezekiel
47:21). The papacy, multiple times during its period of dominion offered
territory to the kings of Europe in exchange for favors.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 93 of 267
I will provide one example among many. In the fourteenth century, there were
constant disputes between Spain and Portugal over who would own the routes
of travel and trade in the Atlantic Islands and the West African territory. Pope
Eugenius wrote a Bull authorizing the Portuguese to enter the Canaries.
However, this was just one of more than one hundred Bulls that dealt with the
distribution of territory. Regarding these disputes, James Muldoon wrote:

“Each kingdom made claims to the Atlantic Islands and wished to have a
monopoly of access to the islands and to the West African mainland. The papacy
entered the fray on the grounds that such conflicts had serious moral
consequences for the Christians and also for those who inhabited these lands. The
papal solution was to apportion the newly discovered island between the two
claimants granting to each a monopoly of trade in an assigned region in return
for defending and expanding Christendom.” James Muldoon, Editor, Bridging the
Medieval-Modern Divide: Medieval Themes in the World of the Reformation,
(2013) “Rights, Property, and the Creation of International Law” p. 192

Review of an Important Principle

Before we begin our study of verses 40-45, we need to remember an important
principle that we considered at the beginning of this study of Daniel 11. In the
Old Testament, geographical locations such as Babylon, Egypt, and Israel are
literal. Thus, the king of the north—Babylon—is literal and local, the king of the
south—Egypt—is literal and local as are Jerusalem and Israel.

However, after the Jewish theocracy ended, Babylon, Egypt, Israel and
Jerusalem are symbolic and global. Babylon is the papacy, Egypt is France and
Jerusalem/Israel is the faithful in the Christian Church. This is the reason why

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 94 of 267
the king of the north (the Seleucids) and south (Egypt) in Daniel 11:5-14 are
literal and local while the kings of the north and the south are symbolic in
Daniel 11:40.

Comments on Verse 40A

In verses 31-39, the king of the north did not face even the smallest hint of
opposition. For [1260] ‘days’ he executed his own will and prospered (verse
33). However, at the beginning of the time of the end, the king of the south
pushed at him or attacked him. We first need to determine the date for the
beginning of the ‘time of the end’.

‘. . . at the time of the end. . .’

The first biblical clue that helps us understand when the ‘time of the end’ began
comes from Daniel 11:40 where we find a very important chronological detail.
There we are told that the king of the south would push at the king of the north
at (not during) the time of the end. Clearly, the time of the end began when the
king of the south pushed at the king of the north. Therefore, if we can discover
who the king of the south is and when he pushed at the king of the north then
we will also be able to determine when the time of the end began.

We find a second clue in Daniel 11:33 where we are told that the king of the
north exercised dominion over God’s people for ‘many days’ (see also Daniel
11:35). As we have previously shown (see pages 14-16), these ‘days’ are
equivalent to ‘time, times and half a time’ in Daniel 7:25, ‘forty-two months’ in
Revelation 13:5-7 and the 1260 days in Revelation 12:6. Now, if the dominion
of the little horn/beast/king of the north was limited to 1260 years, then it must


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 95 of 267
have lost its dominion at the end of those years. That is to say, the dominion of
the king of the north was removed when he was attacked by the king of the
south and given the deadly wound in 1798. This would also prove that the time
of the end began with the deadly wound when the first stage of dominion of the
king of the north/little horn/ beast ended.

Daniel 12:4 provides still another clue that helps us determine when the time
of the end began (see also Daniel 8:17 and carefully study Stephen P. Bohr’s
Notes on Revelation 10, “Your Redemption Draweth Nigh”). In Daniel 12:4,
Gabriel told Daniel to ‘shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the
end.’ Gabriel also told Daniel that the removal of the seal at the time of the end
would increase the knowledge of the contents of the little book.

Revelation 10 describes the specific moment when the Angel removed the seal
from the little book. In verse 2, we first see an angel with an open book in his
hand. A more literal translation of the verb would be, ‘the book, the one having
been opened.’ Next, the Angel proclaimed a powerful global message from the
contents of the book. Finally, the Angel told John to eat the book and it was
sweet in his mouth but bitter in his stomach. The time of the end, therefore,
must have begun when the knowledge of the ‘little book’ (Daniel 8-12) was
greatly increased, an increase which led to a bittersweet experience.

Another line of evidence is that Ellen White explicitly states that the ‘time of the
end’ began in 1798:

“The message of salvation has been preached in all ages; but this message [the
first angel’s message] is a part of the gospel which could be proclaimed only in
the last days, for only then would it be true that the hour of judgment had come.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 96 of 267
The prophecies present a succession of events leading down to the opening of
the judgment. This is especially true of the book of Daniel. However, that part of
his prophecy that related to the last days, Daniel was bidden to close up and seal
‘to the time of the end.’ Not until we reach this time, could a message concerning
the judgment be proclaimed, based on the fulfillment of these prophecies.
However, at the time of the end, says the prophet, ‘many shall run to and fro, and
knowledge shall be increased.’ Daniel 12:4.

‘The apostle Paul warned the church not to look for the coming of Christ in his
day. ‘That day shall not come,’ he says, ‘except there comes a falling away first,
and that man of sin be revealed.’ 2 Thessalonians 2:3. Not until after the great
apostasy, and the long period of the reign of the ‘man of sin,’ can we look for the
advent of our Lord. The ‘man of sin,’ who is also styled ‘the mystery of iniquity,’
‘the son of perdition,’ and ‘that wicked,’ represents the papacy, which, as foretold
in prophecy, was to maintain its supremacy for 1260 years. This period ended in
1798. The coming of Christ could not take place before that time. Paul covers with
his caution the whole of the Christian dispensation down to the year 1798. It is
this side of that time that the message of Christ's second coming is to be
proclaimed.

‘No such message has ever been given in past ages. Paul, as we have seen, did not
preach it; he pointed his brethren into the then far-distant future for the coming
of the Lord. The Reformers did not proclaim it. Martin Luther placed the judgment
about three hundred years in the future from his day. But since 1798 the book of
Daniel has been unsealed, knowledge of the prophecies has increased, and many
have proclaimed the solemn message of the judgment near.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 355, 356

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 97 of 267
We find the strongest biblical clue for the beginning point of the time of the end
in Revelation 11. This last clue will become clear as we continue our study.

‘. . .the king of the south. . .’

Geographically the king of the south is Egypt because Egypt was south of Israel.
Daniel 11:5, 8 makes this identification clear when it tells us that the king of the
south took captives into Egypt. It is interesting that the LXX of Daniel 11:40
actually states that at the time of the end the king of Egypt would attack the
king of the north.

Whereas the north is the realm of counterfeit religion, the south is the opposite;
it denotes a denial of the true God and religion. It represents a human
government that openly denies the existence of the true God. In this sense, it
represents secular humanism in all its dimensions—Communism, Socialism,
Evolutionism, Materialism, Capitalism, Environmentalism, Spiritualism,
Feminism and the Hollywood culture. All of these jettison the need for God in
the daily life and make man the sum of all things.

Who is the king of the south who attacked the king of the north at the time of
the end? It certainly could not be literal geographic Egypt because God’s true
Israel at that time was no longer literal geographic Israel. If Israel is spiritual
and worldwide at the time of the end, then Egypt must also represent a spiritual
and secularistic worldview.

The question is which system does the word ‘Egypt’ represent? Revelation 11
helps us answer this question, but before we go there, it would be well to
determine two things:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 98 of 267
    The salient characteristic of ancient biblical Egypt.
    The meaning of the phrase ‘shall push at him’.

There is one characteristic of ancient Egypt that ‘jumps out’ of the pages in
Exodus. Egypt manifested an arrogant and persistent refusal to recognize the
existence of the true God. When Moses and Aaron demanded the release of
Israel, Pharaoh defiantly thundered:

“Who is the LORD that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the
LORD neither will I let Israel go.” (Exodus 5:2)

Pharaoh’s reaction to each of the ten plagues of Egypt reveals his persistent
refusal to recognize the existence of Israel’s God! Ezekiel 29:3 further portrays
this atheistic arrogance when Pharaoh said:

‘My river [the Nile] is mine own, and I have made it for myself.’

Concerning the atheistic spirit of ancient Egypt, Ellen White wrote:

“Of all nations presented in Bible history, Egypt most boldly denied the existence
of the living God and resisted His commands. No monarch ever ventured upon
more open and highhanded rebellion against the authority of Heaven than did
the king of Egypt. When the message was brought him by Moses, in the name of
the Lord, Pharaoh proudly answered: "Who is Jehovah that I should hearken unto
His voice to let Israel go? I know not Jehovah, and moreover I will not let Israel
go." Exodus 5:2, A.R.V. This is atheism, and the nation represented by Egypt
would give voice to a similar denial of the claims of the living God and would
manifest a like spirit of unbelief and defiance.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 269


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 99 of 267
Some have questioned whether ancient Egypt was truly an atheistic power.
After all, the religion of Egypt consisted of many gods. It is true that Egypt had
many gods but biblically speaking, atheism does not mean a denial of the
existence of any god (such as man, money, education, fame, power, glamor, etc.)
or gods but rather a denial of the existence of the true God. Accordingly,
Hezekiah stated that Sennacherib cast the gods of the nations into the fire
because ‘they were no gods’ (Ezekiel 37:19).

When the apostle Paul rebuked the idolatry of the philosophers on Mars Hill,
they reviled him because he said that their idols were no gods at all (Acts
17:26; see also 2 Corinthians 8:4-6; Galatians 4:8).

In ancient Rome, when Christians refused to offer incense on Cesar’s altar, the
crowd would cry out, ‘kill the atheists.’ In other words, a person who denied the
gods of Rome was, in the eyes of the pagan Romans, an atheist. Thus, the salient
characteristic of ancient Egypt was its open defiance of the true God.

In short, whereas the north represents counterfeit apostate religion, the south
represents atheism/secularism that can trace its ultimate origin to the
principles of the French Revolution.

Notably, Daniel 11:40 tells us that while the king of the north and the king of
the south were at odds in 1798, later in history they will join forces to persecute
God’s remnant people who have found refuge in spiritual Jerusalem. Daniel
11:40-45, Revelation 14:20 and Revelation 16:14 describe the gathering of all
nations—north and south—against God’s holy spiritual Jerusalem.

‘. . . shall push at him’


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 100 of 267
What is the meaning of the expression ‘shall push’? In what sense did the king
of the south ‘push’ at the king of the north in 1798? The Hebrew word nagach
describes the act of thrusting with horns in order to gore a person or kingdom
to death (Ezekiel 34:21; 1 Kings 22:11; 2 Chronicles 18:10; Psalm 44:5). In the
context of the book of Daniel, the word describes the ram goring the kingdom
of Babylon (Daniel 8:4; see also Exodus 21:28-32 where the word appears four
times).

It is clear that the king of the south’s ‘pushing’ in Daniel 11 was far more than a
friendly shove; the king of the south intended to gore the king of the north to
death! Modern versions translate the word nagach as ‘will engage him in battle’
(NIV), ‘shall collide with him’ (NASB), ‘shall attack him’ (ESV).

Which nation in history arrogantly and defiantly denied the existence of the
true God and arose with the specific intent of goring to death the power that
ruled for 1260 years? We find the answer in Revelation 11.

Revelation 11:3 brings to view two witnesses (also referred to as two olive
trees and two candlesticks) who gave their testimony clothed in sackcloth for
1260 days/years. These two witnesses represent the Old and New
Testaments. The Old Testament gives witness to Jesus (John 5:39) as does the
New (John 21:24). The oil from the olive trees represents the Holy Spirit who
inspired both Testaments (2 Peter 1:21; 2 Timothy 3:16) and the candlesticks
symbolize the fact that the two Testaments give spiritual light through the
preaching of the church (Psalm 119:105; Matthew 25:1-12). Sackcloth in the
Bible represents suffering and mourning (Psalm 30:11).




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 101 of 267
A careful study of the contents and literary structure of Revelation 12-13
reveals that the 1260 days cover the same time period as the ‘time, times and
half a time’ that the little horn ruled in Daniel 7 and Revelation 12:6, the ‘42
months’ of Revelation 13:5, and the 1260 days of Revelation 12:14. During this
period of 1260 years, the Bible was giving testimony to Jesus in suffering,
mourning and obscurity.

However, things were about to get a lot worse for these witnesses. Revelation
11:7 tells us that toward the end of their testimony (at the conclusion of the
1260 years) ‘the beast that ascends out of the bottomless pit’ would make war
on them, overcome, and kill them. Their bodies would remain in the street of
the great city whose name ‘spiritually is Sodom and Egypt, where also our
Lord was crucified’ (Revelation 11:8).

The death of the two witnesses would lead to great mirth and celebration on
the part of those who killed them (Revelation 11:9-10). It bears noting that
neither Sodom nor Egypt in this text are literal locations. Sodom did not even
exist at this time, because God destroyed it in the days of Abraham.
Furthermore, the crucifixion of Jesus did not occur literally in Egypt or Sodom.
Thus, the text clearly states that we must understand Sodom and Egypt
spiritually or symbolically. Various Bible versions clearly indicate that we
should not take Egypt nor Sodom literally. Here is the rendering of some
modern versions: ‘figuratively’ (NIV), ‘mystically’ (NASB), ‘spiritually’ (CEV),
‘symbolically’ (ESV), ‘allegorically’ (RSV)

What power in history made open war against the Bible at the end of the 1260
years and arose with the intent of annihilating the papacy (Revelation 13:9-


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 102 of 267
10)? There is one nation only that fits the specifications of the prophecy—
France. Concerning this, Ellen White wrote:

‘This prophecy has received a most exact and striking fulfillment in the history of
France.’ Ellen White, The Great Controversy, p. 269

The French Revolution began in 1789 AD. From 1793-1797, France, in its
National Assembly, adopted a resolution that officially denied the existence of
God. The revolutionaries confiscated and burned Bibles and closed churches.
The goddess of reason was enthroned amidst great licentiousness in the
Cathedral of Notre Dame. The citizenry was ebullient with the joy that they
were finally free from the restraints of the Church and the Bible. The mob
gathered up members of both the nobility and the clergy and decapitated them
with the guillotine. Wrote Ellen White:

"France is the only nation in the world concerning which the authentic record
survives, that as a nation she lifted her hand in open rebellion against the Author
of the universe [keep in mind that the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution had not yet
taken place when Ellen White died in 1915]. Plenty of blasphemers, plenty of
infidels, there have been, and still continue to be, in England, Germany, Spain, and
elsewhere; but France stands apart in the world's history as the single state
which, by the decree of her Legislative Assembly, pronounced that there was no
God, and of which the entire population of the capital, and a vast majority
elsewhere, women as well as men, danced and sang with joy in accepting the
announcement." Blackwood's Magazine, November, 1870. Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, p. 269.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 103 of 267
Revelation 11:3-6 and Revelation 13:10 refer to the same event and we must
study them together. Both refer to the same prophetic period of time (42
months and 1260 days) and both reach their climax in the events that
transpired between 1789 and 1798. Revelation 11:3 describes the papacy’s
war on the Bible for 1260 years that climaxed with the attack of France on God
and the Bible from 1789-1797.

Revelation 13:5, 10 likewise describes the papacy’s dominion over the saints
for 42 months culminating with the war of France against the Roman Catholic
system from 1789-1798. During the reign of terror in France, scores of priests
perished ‘with the sword’ and in 1798, the French army took Pope Pius VI
captive. Regarding the slaughter of the religious leaders, Ellen White wrote:

“The scaffolds ran red with the blood of the priests. The galleys and the prisons,
once crowded with Huguenots, were now filled with their persecutors. Chained to
the bench and toiling at the oar, the Roman Catholic clergy experienced all those
woes that their church had so freely inflicted on the gentle heretics.” Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, p. 283

Furthermore, Revelation 11 describes France not only behaving like Egypt but
also behaving like ‘Sodom’. Ellen White wrote:

“France presented also the characteristics which especially distinguished
Sodom. During the Revolution there was manifest a state of moral debasement
and corruption similar to that which brought destruction upon the cities of the
plain.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 269

During the French Revolution, Paris became the center of atheism and crass
immorality. One is reminded of the Apostle Paul’s description of a godless and

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 104 of 267
licentious world at the end of history (Romans 1:18-32). Paris changed the
glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man—and
birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. They exchanged the truth of
God for the lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator.

Because they did not like to retain God in their knowledge God gave them over
to a debased mind, to do those things that are not fitting such as sexual
immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder,
strife, deceit, evil-mindedness. They were whisperers, backbiters, haters of
God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
undiscerning, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful; who, knowing
the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are
deserving of death, not only do the same but also approve of those who practice
them.’

At the conclusion of the Revolution in 1798, Napoleon’s armies took Pope Pius
VI prisoner who died in exile in France in 1799. Napoleon’s intention was to
destroy the papacy whose principles stood in direct opposition to the principles
of the Revolution.

According to Daniel 11:40, the time of the end began when the king of the south
attacked at the king of the north. This being the case, the time of the end must
have begun in 1798 when the French Revolution wounded the papacy!

Daniel 11:33 describes how ‘[1260] days’ (verse 33) the papal king of the north
led God’s people into captivity and killed them with the sword but in 1798 the
atheistic king of the south led the king of the north into captivity and wounded
him with the sword. In my Notes on Daniel 7, I have provided ample evidence


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 105 of 267
that the papacy sustained a deadly wound in 1798, a wound that has not yet
fully healed in the early twenty first century. Wrote the late Jesuit, Malachi
Martin:

“[For] fifteen hundred years and more, Rome had kept as strong a hand as
possible in each local community around the wide world . . . . By and large, and
admitting some exceptions, that had been the Roman view until two hundred
years of inactivity had been imposed upon the papacy by the major secular
powers of the world.” Quoted in Christianity Today (November 21, 1986), p. 26.

All atheistic Marxist movements of the 20th century have derived their
inspiration from the French Revolution. The reason is understandable. The
Revolution was an uprising of the proletariat against the favored class—the
nobility and the clergy. Marxists have referred to religion as the opium of the
people because the papal system used it to control the masses during the 1260
years.

For centuries, church and state had joined hands to impose upon European
society an oppressive system founded on tradition rather than the Bible. The
rulers and priests who lived in opulence controlled the people by warning them
of the fearfulness of hell or by offering them the hope of a future reward in
heaven. As a result, Europe languished in war, ignorance, disease and poverty.
At the end of the 1260 years, the lid of the pressure cooker blew off.
Unfortunately, when the revolutionaries overthrew the church-state alliance
they also threw out the Bible, that is, they threw out the proverbial baby with
the bath water.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 106 of 267
It is remarkable to see how the first part of Daniel 11:40 found its fulfillment in
history after 1798. First, the United States and Europe established democratic
systems that kept papal power in check. Then in 1917 a type of ‘French
Revolution’ took place in Russia (once again it was a war against the ruling class
and the clergy). Soon, to the consternation of the papacy and the western world,
country after country became communist—China, the Soviet Union, Cuba,
Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and North Korea. Nicaragua followed suit and the
destiny of El Salvador was uncertain. Especially disturbing to the Roman
Catholic papacy was the fact that communism was overtaking countries which
had traditionally been Roman Catholic strongholds. It appeared like in the
aftermath of the French Revolution the entire globe would become communist.
The king of the south was in the process of pushing at the king of the north.

A very interesting article in Life magazine told of an event in the life of Joseph
Stalin:

“In 1935 Josef Stalin, absolute ruler of the Soviet Union, was given some
unsolicited advice. Make a propitiatory gesture to the Vatican, he was told.
Pushed too far, his country’s Catholics might become counterrevolutionary.
Stalin’s great mustache amplified his sneer. ‘The Pope. And how many divisions
has he?’ The answer then was that he has none. The answer now is that he needs
none. The structures of Communism are crumbling to the touch.” (Stefan Kanfer,
Life, “John Paul II's Triumph: How a persistent pope helped foster freedom in
Eastern Europe” December 1, 1989).

Time Magazine for December 4, 1989 describes the Marxist onslaught against
the Roman Catholic clergy after the Bolshevik Revolution:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 107 of 267
“Until recently, the battalions of Marxism seemed to have the upper hand over the
soldiers of the Cross. In the wake of the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917, Lenin had
pledged toleration but delivered terror. ‘Russia turned crimson with the blood of
martyrs,’ says Father Gleb Yakunin, Russian orthodoxy’s bravest agitator for
religious freedom. In the Bolsheviks’ first five years in power, 28 bishops and 1,200
priests were cut down by the red sickle. Stalin greatly accelerated the terror, and
by the end of Khrushchev’s rule, liquidation of the clergy reached an estimated
50,000. After World War II, fierce but generally less bloody persecution spread
into the Ukraine and the new Soviet bloc, affecting millions of Roman Catholics
and Protestants as well as Orthodox.”

However, Daniel 11:40 predicted that the Roman Catholic Cross would trounce
the Soviet Sickle. Daniel 11:40 affirmed that the king of the south would attack
the king of the north in 1798. However, the second half of the verse explains
that the king of the north would rise against the king of the south and
overwhelm him like a devastating flood.

Revelation 13:3, 12, 14 is parallel to Daniel 11:40. The prophet of Patmos
predicted that after the beast received a deadly wound, it would have a
miraculous healing and the whole world would eventually wonder after it and
worship it (Revelation 13:3).

In the early 1980's, this scenario appeared well-nigh impossible. Well do I
remember how my students in our Seventh-day Adventist University in
Medellin, Colombia snickered when I told them that the days of communism
were numbered! Many objected: ‘Can’t you see how country after country is




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 108 of 267
going communist?’ Yes, I answered, but the prophecy of Daniel 11 tells us that
the papacy will overcome Communism. At the time, I persuaded few!

In the late1940's, decades before the Berlin Wall went up or came down, Louis
F. Were, like a lonely voice crying out in the wilderness, boldly stated:

“Communism is the one great barrier between her [the papacy] and her goal.
This barrier she regards as a serious hindrance to the acquisition of world
control. This barrier she seeks to remove. The Scriptures declare that she will
overcome this tremendous barrier—‘the land of Egypt shall not escape’. The
countries that have adopted ‘godless Communism’ will not escape her [the
papacy’s] control.” (Louis F. Were, Before Probation Closes, p. 60)

How could Louis F. Were make such a bold statement when every news source
around him said just the opposite? The answer is quite simple. Louis Were
allowed the Bible to explain current events rather than having current events
explain the Bible! Certainly, Louis Were’s view has been remarkably vindicated
post-mortem. For a fuller presentation of the papal strategy to overcome
Communism/Socialism, I recommend that you read my two newsletter articles,
‘Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis’ and ‘Francis the Socialist’. In these articles, I
show that the papal strategy to conquer Socialism is to adopt its agenda.

Comments on Verse 40B

In the following map, we can see the geographical trajectory of the king of the
north’s conquests. The king begins his campaign in Babylon in the North
Country. As a devastating flood he moves west through Syria, Lebanon, Tyre
and Sidon (the countries) and then takes a southward turn into Israel (the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 109 of 267
Glorious Land). Next, he goes for Ammon, Edom and Moab east and south of
Israel, and continues his southward movement into Egypt, Ethiopia and Libya.

The picture is one of an absolute and devastating conquest of the known world
at that time from the River Euphrates to the Nile Delta! (Genesis 15:18).
However, there is one dissenting voice and it is coming from the north and the
east where God’s faithful remnant has taken refuge in Jerusalem. Upon
receiving disturbing news, the king moves north with the intention of
extinguishing the last dissenting voice. He pitches the tents of his palace in a
strategic place outside the Mount of the Congregation. However, at the height
of his success, he comes to his end with none to help. The kings, the harlot’s
daughters, the merchants of the earth and the multitudes turn against him.

Noteworthy is the fact that Daniel 11 describes the conquests of the king of the
north symbolically as the flooding river of Babylon (Daniel 11:40-41) and in
Revelation 17 the harlot, who is identified as Babylon (Revelation 17:5), is
described as sitting upon the many waters of the river Euphrates (Revelation
17:1, 15; 16:12). As we shall see, the drying up of the Euphrates (Revelation
16:12) is parallel to the king of the north coming to his end with none to help
him (Daniel 11:45). There can be no doubt that Daniel 11:40-45 and Revelation
17 are describing the identical end-time power!

‘And the king of the north shall come against him [the king of the south] like a
whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships’

These words in Daniel 11:40 describe the healing of the deadly wound that the
papacy sustained in 1798. Verses 41-45 then describe a flooding that not only
fells the king of the south but also inundates the entire world in his train.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 110 of 267
The Old Testament frequently translates the word ‘whirlwind’ as ‘storm’ or
‘tempest’ (Isaiah 28:2; Psalm 58:9; Nahum 1:3; Psalm 50:3). The word is a
metaphor for conquering armies.                   Various Bible translations help us
understand the invasion of the king of the north. The NIV reads, ‘the king of the
North will storm out against him’. The ESV renders it, ‘the king of the north shall
rush upon him like a whirlwind’.

Writing about the period that follows the healing of the deadly wound, Ellen
White described it as a devastating storm:

“God has revealed what is to take place in the last days that His people may be
prepared to stand against the tempest of opposition and wrath. Those who have
been warned of the events before them are not to sit in calm expectation of the
coming storm, comforting themselves that the Lord will shelter His faithful ones
in the day of trouble.” (Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 325)

“Angels are now restraining the winds of strife, that they may not blow until the
world shall be warned of its coming doom; but a storm is gathering, ready to
burst upon the earth; and when God shall bid His angels loose the winds, there
will be such a scene of strife as no pen can picture.” Ellen G. White, Education, pp.
179-180

“As the storm approaches a large class who have professed faith in the third
angel's message, but have not been sanctified through obedience to the truth,
abandon their position and join the ranks of the opposition. By uniting with the
world and partaking of its spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the
same light; and when the test is brought, they are prepared to choose the easy,
popular side. Men of talent and pleasing address, who once rejoiced in the truth,

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 111 of 267
employ their powers to deceive and mislead souls. They become the bitterest
enemies of their former brethren.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p.608

“Prophecies are being fulfilled, and stormy times are before us. Old controversies
which have apparently been hushed for a long time will be revived, and new
controversies will spring up; new and old will commingle, and this will take place
right early. The angels are holding the four winds, that they shall not blow, until
the specified work of warning is given to the world; but the storm is gathering,
the clouds are loading, ready to burst upon the world, and to many it will be as a
thief in the night.” Ellen G. White, An Appeal to our Ministers and Conference
Committees, 1892, p. 38

Chariots and horses portray military power (1 Kings 1:5; 20:1; 1 Samuel 13:5;
Exodus 14:9; Joshua 24:6; Isaiah 43:17; Ezekiel 26:7; Revelation 9:9) and ships
are symbolic of economic power (1 Kings 10:22; Psalm 107:23; Proverbs
31:14; Ezekiel 27:25, 29; Revelation 18:17-19). The picture is clear: The king
of the north would overcome the king of the south by great military and
economic power! Some might argue that today nations do not use chariots and
horses for war neither do they use ships for much of the commercial activity.
Today planes, drones and missiles are the implements of war. However, we
must remember that God speaks in the language that the prophet used in his
time.

‘. . .and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over. . .’

The Hebrew word ‘countries’ is common in the Old Testament and could be
translated ‘nations’ (see for example Genesis 10:20; Genesis 41:57; Ezekiel 6:8;
34:13; Daniel 9:7). The westerly movement of the king of the north indicates


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 112 of 267
that the countries referred to are Syria, Lebanon, Tyre and Sidon, west of
Babylon, and north of Israel.

The Old Testament uses the word ‘overflow’ to depict a flooding river. In this
case, the word is a metaphor that compares the conquests of the king of the
north with a flooding river. No doubt, the river is the great River Euphrates.
Following are some examples of the metaphorical use of flooding, persecuting
waters.

In Psalm 69:2, 15 David exclaimed to God:

“I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters,
where the floods overflow me. Let not the water flood overflow me, neither let
the deep swallow me up and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.”

King Senaquerib invaded the glorious land in the year 701 BC and Isaiah
compared the advance of his armies with an all-encompassing flood:

“Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river,
strong and many, even the king of Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come
up over all his channels, and go over all his banks: And he shall pass through
Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the neck; and the
stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.” (Isaiah
8:7-8. For further examples, refer to Daniel 11:10, 22, 26; 9:26; Nahum 1:8 and
Isaiah 43:2; Isaiah 17:12, 13).

The prophet Jeremiah described Babylon coming from the north as an
overwhelming flood, conquering all that was in its path:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 113 of 267
“Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, waters rise out of the north, and shall be an
overflowing flood; they shall overflow the land and all that is in it, the city and
those who dwell within; then the men shall cry, and all the inhabitants of the land
shall wail.”

This is the same overflowing river described in Revelation 12:13-15 and 17:1-
5. Notably, the harlot of Revelation 17 sits on many waters and her name is
‘Babylon’. Babylon’s river was the Euphrates so the waters the harlot sits on
must be the symbolic Euphrates—multitudes, nations, tongues and peoples.

Following is a summary interpretation of verse 40 in the light of what we have
studied so far:

“At the time of the end (1798 AD), the king of the south (France: Atheistic
communism) will push (give a deadly wound) at the king of the north (the
papacy) but the king of the north (the papacy) will recover from the attack (the
deadly wound will be healed). By means of horses, chariots and many ships
(great military and economic power) the king of the north (the papacy) will
defeat the king of the south (atheistic communism). The victory of the king of the
north (the papacy) will be comparable to the devastation caused by the great
river Euphrates at flood stage.”

The following bullet points illustrate the total career of the king of the north
and his helpers:

    Revelation 12:13-15, Revelation 13:1-9: The persecuting waters of the
       symbolic River Euphrates flowed against God’s people for 1260 years.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 114 of 267
    Revelation 12:16; 13:3, 10: The persecuting waters dried up by the earth
       (the territory of the United States) and the French Revolution (1620,
       1798 AD).

    Revelation 12:17; 16:13-15; 17:1, 2, 15: The persecuting waters will flow
       once again when the lamb-horned beast from the earth gives the sword
       back to the beast and heals its wound.

    Revelation 16:12; 17:16, 17: The persecuting waters will dry up on
       Babylon for the final time when Jesus overcomes it and takes over the
       kingdoms of the world.
Two critical questions confront us at this point:

    Did the Roman Catholic papacy overcome atheistic communism through
       great military and economic power?

    Is the papacy in the process of recovering its awesome global power?

Someone might object that the papacy has not fired a single missile at atheistic
communism. How can anyone say with a straight face that the papacy overcame
atheistic communism with great military and economic strength?

The answer is quite simple. The papacy does not need its own military or
economic strength. The papacy’s history has been one of piggybacking on the
nations that do have military and economic strength. The papacy then uses
their resources (forces) to accomplish its purposes. Has the papacy done this
in recent years? The answer is a resounding yes!

Before the fall of the iron curtain in 1989, the late Malachi Martin boldly
predicted in his book The Keys of this Blood, that the papacy would eventually

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 115 of 267
conquer its two global competitors, Marxism and Western Capitalism. Shortly
after the publication of Martin’s book, the iron curtain came tumbling down (in
1989). Though this was a remarkable event in itself, even more remarkable was
the manner in which the Iron Curtain came down.

The cover of Time Magazine for February 24, 1992 bears the title: ‘Holy
Alliance.’ Portrayed on the cover are Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul II. The
subtitle tells it all: “How Reagan and the Pope conspired to assist Poland’s
Solidarity movement and hasten the demise of Communism”. This fascinating
cover article written by Carl Bernstein in 1992 explains how the Vatican and
the United States—two philosophical enemies to be sure—joined forces to
precipitate the fall of the Iron Curtain. The United States took advantage of the
vast intelligence network provided by the Vatican while the United States in
turn contributed its vast technological, economic and military resources.
Bernstein wrote:

“At their first meeting, Reagan and John Paul II discussed something else they had
in common: both had survived assassination attempts only six weeks apart in
1981, and both believed God had saved them for a special mission. . . According to
National Security Adviser Clark, the Pope and Reagan referred to the ‘miraculous’
fact that they had survived. Clark said the men shared ‘a unity of spiritual view
and a unity of vision on the Soviet empire: that right or correctness would
ultimately prevail in the divine plan.’”

Bernstein painstakingly documented and amplified the details of this holy
alliance in the book His Holiness that he co-authored with Marco Politi. This
book is required reading for anyone who wishes to truly understand the deep


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 116 of 267
entanglement of the United States with the Vatican in the overthrow of Soviet
Communism.

The secular media has recognized that the United States, particularly during the
presidency of Ronald Reagan, used its enormous economic resources to build
up and modernize its military. The country incurred huge deficits in the
process and the result was that the Soviet Union could no longer compete. The
Soviet Union could no longer expend huge chunks of its national budget on
defense and still feed its citizens! When the Iron Curtain fell, all could see that
the Soviet Union was virtually bankrupt. It was an economic necessity, not a
philosophical change from Marxism to Capitalism that prompted Mikhail
Gorbachev to cry out Perestroika! Glasnost!

Fred Barnes wrote about the economic and military role of Ronald Reagan’s
presidency in the demise of Soviet Communism:

“In 1981, the Communist bloc got another shock. A new American President,
Ronald Reagan, began fulfilling his promise to challenge the Soviets, not placate
them. Over the next few years, he accelerated the military buildup and
announced the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), a space-based system for
protecting against a missile attack. He backed anti-Communist rebels in
Nicaragua, Angola, Cambodia, and Afghanistan. And with American troops, he
liberated the island of Grenada from Communist thugs.

“The Soviets’ confidence was shaken. . . . The Western Europeans also pressured
the Soviets. NATO forged ahead with military modernization. German voters
spurned Soviet ‘peace overtures’ and elected a government that voted to deploy
new intermediate-range missiles. . . Military pressure from America and its


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 117 of 267
Western allies had caused the Soviets to flinch” (Fred Barnes, “Communism’s
Incredible Collapse” The Reader’s Digest, March, 1990, p. 105)

“In the 1980s, communist economies, always inefficient, went belly up. Before,
they had lacked consumer and luxury goods. Now perennial shortages of staples
worsened as well. When Soviet miners went on strike in 1989, their demands
included soap, toilet paper, and sugar” (Fred Barnes, Reader’s Digest, March,
1990, p. 105)

An article in U. S. News and World Report agreed:

“As the economy [of the Soviet Union] deteriorates and shortages grow, public
disillusionment with Communism and with Gorbachev himself is rising, and
hostile republics, nationalities and interests groups are competing more fiercely
for political power and for shares in the shrinking economy. Corruption and
crime are rampant; miners and railway workers threaten to cut off fuel supplies
during the bitter winter; Azerbaijanis cut the rain line to an Armenian enclave in
their midst; farmers hoard food, leaving city shelves bare” (U.S. News and World
Report, “Collapse of Communism, is the Soviet Union Next?”, January 15, 1990)

The turmoil in Eastern Europe finally led Gorbachev to seek a personal
audience with Pope John Paul. Significantly, it was not Pope John Paul II who
was visiting Gorbachev but rather the leader of the Soviet bloc who was
traveling to visit the Pope. An article in Time Magazine (December 4, 1989)
described the expectation awakened by this historic event:

“Of all the events that have shaken the Soviet bloc in 1989, none is more fraught
with history—or more implausible—than the polite encounter to take place this
week in Vatican City. There, in the spacious ceremonial library of the 16th century

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 118 of 267
Apostolic Palace, the czar of world atheism, Mikhail Gorbachev, will visit the Vicar
of Christ, Pope John Paul II.

“The moment will be electric, not only because John Paul helped inflame the
fervor for freedom in his Polish homeland that swept like brush fire across
Eastern Europe. Beyond that, the meeting of the two men symbolizes the end of
the 20th century’s most dramatic spiritual war, a conflict in which the seemingly
irresistible force of Communism battered against the immovable object of
Christianity.”

Time Magazine for December 11, 1989 used a significant historical analogy to
describe this historic encounter between Gorbachev and John Paul II:

“When the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV decided to seek pardon of Pope Gregory
VII in 1077, he stood barefoot for three days in the snow outside the papal
quarters in Canossa, Italy. Gorbachev’s concordat with the church was no less
significant in its way.”

That this secular magazine should compare John Paul II with Gregory VII and
Mikhail Gorbachev with Henry IV is amazing. What the author is saying is that
John Paul II humbled Gorbachev in 1989 much as his predecessor had done at
Canossa with Henry IV in 1077!

An article in Newsweek (December 25, 1989) described the timeline of events
that led to the fall of Communism. Significantly, the title of the article was ‘Days
of the Whirlwind.’ The word ‘whirlwind’ is the very one that appears in the
King James translation of Daniel 11:41 where we find a description of the king
of the north’s counterattack on the king of the south.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 119 of 267
Comments on Verse 41

‘. . .he shall enter [‘invade’, NIV] also into the Glorious Land. . .’

Literally speaking the ‘Glorious Land’ (same expression as in verse 16)
represents the geographical territory of Israel. The identical word is translated
‘Pleasant Land’ in Daniel 8:9, ‘Goodly Heritage’ in Jeremiah 3:19 and the ‘Glory
of all Lands’ in Ezekiel 20:6, 15.

What does the Glorious Land represent in the end time? In John 4:20-24 Jesus
told the Samaritan woman that after Pentecost there would be no more literal
and local holy lands or holy mountains. Therefore, we must ask what the
‘glorious land’ represents. However, before we are able to answer this question,
we must first determine why God chose literal Israel and why He planted them
in the literal ‘Glorious Land.’ Here are the main points:

    Israel spent 430 years captive in Egypt.
    At the end of that period, God delivered them from bondage and took
       them to the Glorious Land.
    In the glorious land, they had the freedom to worship the true God
       according to the dictates of their conscience.
    The land of Canaan flowed with ‘milk and honey which is the glory of all
       lands’ (Ezekiel 20:6, 15), a euphemism for unparalleled abundance and
       prosperity. God gave Israel every possible material advantage to become
       the greatest nation on earth.
    Israel was to guard the law and preserve the worship of the true God.
    The land of Israel was at the very hub of three continents (Europe, Asia
       and Africa). God had a providential purpose in placing Israel in this

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 120 of 267
       strategic location. As people from all three continents came through
       Israel, God’s people would have the excellent opportunity of giving
       witness to the true God. This purpose is clearly enunciated in Isaiah 49:6:

       “And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise
       up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give
       thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the
       end of the earth.”

    God warned Israel that if they should prove unfaithful to Him, they
       would lose their prosperity and ultimately the land itself. So to speak,
       national apostasy would lead to national ruin. In effect, this is precisely
       what happened.

Ellen White described God’s providential purpose for electing Israel:

“God's law must be exalted, His authority maintained; and to the house of Israel
was given this great and noble work. God separated them from the world, that He
might commit to them a sacred trust. He made them the depositaries of His law,
and He purposed through them to preserve among men the knowledge of Himself.
Thus, the light of heaven was to shine out to a world enshrouded in darkness,
and a voice was to be heard appealing to all peoples to turn from idolatry to
serve the living God.

"With great power, and with a mighty hand,’ God brought His chosen people out
of the land of Egypt. Exodus 32:11. ‘He sent Moses His servant; and Aaron whom
He had chosen. They showed His signs among them, and wonders in the land of
Ham.’ ‘He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up: so He led them through
the depths.’ Psalms 105:26, 27; 106:9. He rescued them from their servile state

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 121 of 267
that He might bring them to a good land, a land which in His providence He
had prepared for them as a refuge from their enemies. He would bring them to
Himself and encircle them in His everlasting arms; and in return for His goodness
and mercy, they were to exalt His name and make it glorious in the earth.

"’The Lord's portion is His people; Jacob is the lot of His inheritance. He found him
in a desert land, and in the waste howling wilderness; He led him about, He
instructed him, He kept him as the apple of His eye. As an eagle stirreth up her
nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth
them on her wings: so the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange god
with him.’ Deuteronomy 32:9-12. Thus, He brought the Israelites unto Himself,
that they might dwell as under the shadow of the Most High. Miraculously
preserved from the perils of the wilderness wandering, they were finally
established in the Land of Promise as a favored nation.” Ellen G. White, Prophets
and Kings, pp. 16-17

It is impossible to miss the striking similarities between the providential
establishment of ancient Israel in the Glorious Land and God’s plan for the
Protestant pilgrims who fled to the United States from papal persecutions in
Europe. Notice the similarities:

    God’s people were in bondage to the Roman Catholic papacy for 1260
       years.
    Toward the end of this period, God’s people fled from Europe to the earth
       (the territory of what would become the United States) which helped
       them (Revelation 12:16). In this new land, they sought freedom to
       worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 122 of 267
    This land was truly a good land with almost unlimited material resources
       conducive to the proclamation of the gospel to the world.
    God proposed that in this land the law of God should be exalted and true
       worship preserved among its citizens. This task was particularly
       committed to Seventh-day Adventists.
    The land was in a strategic location where technology, travel and industry
       would make it possible for missionaries to witness about the true Creator
       God and His worship to the inhabitants of every nation, kindred, tongue
       and people.
    However, if this nation should prove unworthy of God’s trust, national
       apostasy would lead to national ruin.

       “The greatest and most favored nation upon the earth is the United
       States. A gracious Providence has shielded this country, and poured
       upon her the choicest of Heaven's blessings. Here the persecuted and
       oppressed have found refuge. Here the Christian faith in its purity has
       been taught. This people have been the recipients of great light and
       unrivaled mercies. However, these gifts have been repaid by
       ingratitude and forgetfulness of God. The Infinite One keeps a
       reckoning with the nations, and their guilt is proportioned to the light
       rejected. A fearful record now stands in the register of heaven against our
       land; but the crime which shall fill up the measure of her iniquity is that
       of making void the law of God.” Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times,
       July 4, 1899

In a remarkable article in The Signs of the Times ‘Build the Old Waste Places’,
June 12, 1893, Ellen White quoted Jeremiah 3:18-19 which in its original

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 123 of 267
context applies to the land that God originally gave to literal Israel. Then, in the
same breath, she goes on to speak of the prophetic destiny of the United States:

“When the land that the Lord provided as an asylum for his people that they
might worship him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land
over which for long years the shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land
which God has favored by making it the depository of the pure religion of
Christ—when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure the principles of
Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with God's
law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants
will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a
national act enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor to the corrupt
faith of Rome, reviving her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be
time for God to work in mighty power for the vindication of his truth.”

In a similar vein, Ellen White wrote about the role of the United States in
prophecy:

“The Lord has done more for the United States than for any other country upon
which the sun shines. Here He provided an asylum for His people, where they
could worship Him according to the dictates of conscience. Here Christianity has
progressed in its purity. The life-giving doctrine of the one Mediator between God
and man has been freely taught. God designed that this country should ever
remain free for all people to worship Him in accordance with the dictates of
conscience. He designed that its civil institutions, in their expansive productions,
should represent the freedom of gospel privileges.” Ellen G. White, Maranatha, p.
193


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 124 of 267
The book of Revelation (in full harmony with Daniel 11:41) portrays the time
when the United States will fall into the hands of the Roman Catholic papacy
and will do its bidding (Revelation 13:11-18). The beast that rises from the
earth—the Glorious Land— (Revelation 12:16) that has two horns as a lamb
(representing civil and religious liberty) will end up speaking like a dragon and
the beast! This it will do by making void the law of God and imposing the mark
of the beast. Then, like with the Jewish nation, national apostasy will end only
in national ruin.

The same sin that brought national ruin upon Jerusalem will bring ruin upon
the Christian World:

“The great sin of the Jews was their rejection of Christ; the great sin of the
Christian world would be their rejection of the law of God, the foundation of His
government in heaven and earth.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 22

The rejection of Christ by the Jewish nation and the rejection of the Law by the
Christian world appear to be different sins, but in principle, they are the same.
No one can claim to love Christ and reject the Law because the Law is a
transcript or written description of Christ’s character:

“Christ is revealed in the law, which is a transcript of His character.” Ellen G.
White, Selected Messages, volume 1, p. 240

The Jewish nation claimed to love the transcript (the Law) but hated Christ. On
the other hand, the Christian world will claim to love Christ but they will hate
the transcript.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 125 of 267
We must understand that the ‘Glorious Land’ does not represent the United
States as a mere civil society but rather as the stronghold of Protestant
principles. The United States has exported these Protestant principles by
missionary activity to the world.

‘. . . and many countries [not in the original] shall be overthrown. . . . ’

The word ‘countries’ was added by the King James Version translators but does
not belong to the text. A better translation would be, ‘many [who are in the
Glorious Land] shall be overthrown [caused to fall].’

The word ‘overthrown’ (kashal) is important. It means ‘to waver, to totter, to
falter, to stumble, to fall, through weakness of the legs or ankles.’ The King
James Version most frequently translates the word as ‘fall’ or ‘stumble.’ Though
it can refer to physical stumbling and falling as in persecution or battle (Daniel
11:14, 33, 34; Nahum 2:5; Isaiah 5:27; Jeremiah 46:6; Isaiah 40:30) its more
prevalent use seems to denote a moral stumbling and fall. Notice the following
examples:

    Isaiah 8:15

       Isaiah predicted that when the Messiah came, ‘many among them [Israel]
       shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.’

    Isaiah 28:7

       ‘But they also have erred through wine, and through strong drink are out
       of the way; the priest and the prophet have erred through strong drink, they
       are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way through strong drink;
       they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.’

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 126 of 267
    Jeremiah 50:32

       “And the most proud shall stumble and fall and none shall raise him up:
       and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all round about him.’

    Jeremiah 18:15

       ‘Because my people hath forgotten me, they have burned incense to vanity,
       and they have caused them to stumble in their ways from the ancient paths,
       to walk in paths, in a way not cast up.’

    Malachi 2:8

       ‘But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble at the
       law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the LORD of hosts.’

    Proverbs 16:18

       ‘Pride goeth before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall.”

    Isaiah 28:13

       ‘But the word of the LORD was unto them precept upon precept, precept
       upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little;
       that they might go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and
       taken.”

    Hosea 5:5

       ‘And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall Israel and
       Ephraim fall in their iniquity; Judah also shall fall with them.’



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 127 of 267
    Hosea 14:9

       ‘Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? Prudent and he shall
       know them? For the ways of the LORD are right, and the just shall walk in
       them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.”

Daniel 11:41 is saying that when the king of the north enters the Glorious Land
(the realm of the church—Protestant and particularly Seventh-day Adventist),
many members will stumble and fall. This is what Seventh-day Adventists have
called ‘the shaking.’

Jesus’ Olivet Discourse helps us understand the sequence of events that precede
and follow the shaking. First, there are wars and rumors of wars, nation rising
against nation and kingdom against kingdom, earthquakes, famines pestilence
and tumults. These will be but the beginning of sorrows (Matthew 24:6-8). At
this time, the populace will blame Christ’s faithful disciples for these calamities
and some of them will suffer death (Matthew 24:9). This persecution will lead
many who do not trust in Jesus to turn away from the faith:

“At that time many will turn away from the faith and will betray and hate each
other, 11 and many false prophets will appear and deceive many people. 12
Because of the increase of wickedness, the love of most will grow cold, 13 but he
who stands firm to the end will be saved.” (Matthew 24:10-13; NIV)

Then the United States will set up the Abomination of Desolation (Matthew
24:15; Luke 21, 20; the national Sunday law) followed by the time of trouble
mentioned in Matthew 24:21, 22 and Daniel 12:1.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 128 of 267
Notice the following corroborating statements from the Spirit of Prophecy
about the shaking:

“The time is not far distant when the test will come to every soul. The mark of the
beast will be urged upon us. Those who have step by step yielded to worldly
demands and conformed to worldly customs will not find it a hard matter to yield
to the powers that be, rather than subject themselves to derision, insult,
threatened imprisonment, and death. The contest is between the commandments
of God and the commandments of men. In this time, the gold will be separated
from the dross in the church. True godliness will be clearly distinguished from
the appearance and tinsel of it. Many a star that we have admired for its
brilliancy will then go out in darkness. Chaff like a cloud will be borne away on
the wind, even from places where we see only floors of rich wheat. All who assume
the ornaments of the sanctuary, but are not clothed with Christ's righteousness,
will appear in the shame of their own nakedness.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for
the Church, volume 5, p. 81

“The Word of God plainly declares that His law is to be scorned, trampled upon,
by the world; there will be an extraordinary prevalence of iniquity. The professed
Protestant world [the glorious land] will form a confederacy with the man of
sin, and the church and the world will be in corrupt harmony.

“Here the great crisis is coming upon the world. The Scriptures teach that popery
[the king of the north] is to regain its lost supremacy, and that the fires of
persecution will be rekindled through the time-serving concessions of the
so-called Protestant world. In this time of peril, we can stand only as we have
the truth and the power of God. Men can know the truth only by being themselves


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 129 of 267
partakers of the divine nature. We have need now for more than human wisdom
in reading and searching the Scriptures; and if we come to God's Word with
humble hearts, He will raise up a standard for us against the lawless element.”
Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume 2, pp. 367-369

“I was pointed to the providence of God among His people and was shown that
every trial made by the refining, purifying process upon professed Christians
proves some to be dross. The fine gold does not always appear. In every religious
crisis, some fall under temptation. The shaking of God blows away multitudes
like dry leaves. Prosperity multiplies a mass of professors. Adversity purges them
out of the church. As a class, their spirits are not steadfast with God. They go out
from us because they are not of us; for when tribulation or persecution arises
because of the word, many are offended.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, volume 4, p. 89

“As the storm approaches, a large class who have professed faith in the third
angel's message, but have not been sanctified through obedience to the truth,
abandon their position and join the ranks of the opposition. By uniting with
the world and partaking of its spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the
same light; and when the test is brought, they are prepared to choose the easy,
popular side. Men of talent and pleasing address, who once rejoiced in the truth,
employ their powers to deceive and mislead souls. They become the bitterest
enemies of their former brethren. When Sabbath keepers are brought before the
courts to answer for their faith, these apostates are the most efficient agents of
Satan to misrepresent and accuse them, and by false reports and insinuations to
stir up the rulers against them.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 608



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 130 of 267
“Soon God's people will be tested by fiery trials, and the great proportion of those
who now appear to be genuine and true will prove to be base metal. Instead of
being strengthened and confirmed by opposition, threats, and abuse, they will
cowardly take the side of the opposers. . . Now is the time for God's people to
show themselves true to principle. When the religion of Christ is most held in
contempt, when His law is most despised, then should our zeal be the warmest and
our courage and firmness the most unflinching. To stand in defense of truth and
righteousness when the majority forsake us, to fight the battles of the Lord when
champions are few--this will be our test. At this time, we must gather warmth
from the coldness of others, courage from their cowardice, and loyalty from their
treason. The nation [the glorious land] will be on the side of the great rebel
leader.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pp. 135, 136

“The word of God plainly tells us that few will be saved, and that the greater
number of those, even, who are called will prove themselves unworthy of
everlasting life. They will have no part in heaven, but will have their portion with
Satan, and experience the second death.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, volume 2, pp. 293, 294

“The shaking of God blows away multitudes like dry leaves.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, p. 89

“Little children, it is the last hour; and as you have heard that the Antichrist is
coming, even now many antichrists have come, by which we know that it is the
last hour. 19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been
of us, they would have continued with us; but they went out that they might be
made manifest, that none of them were of us.” 1 John 2:18, 19


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 131 of 267
‘. . .but these shall escape [malat] out of his [the king of the north’s] hand. . .’

The NIV translates verse 41 as follows:

“He will also invade the Beautiful Land. Many countries will fall, but Edom, Moab
and the leaders of Ammon will be delivered from his hand.”

The word ‘escape’ is of particular importance here. The Hebrew word malat
means ‘to be smooth, to escape, to deliver, to release, to rescue, and to preserve.’
The King James Version generally translates it as ‘escape’ or ‘deliver.’ In most
cases, the word expresses the idea of escaping from some imminent danger. It
appears frequently in the sense of physical flight in order to save one’s life. Let
us examine a few examples where the word appears.

When the angels took Lot out of Sodom, they told him:

‘Escape [malat] for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the
plain; escape [malat] to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.’ (Genesis 19:17).

Not only did God instruct Lot to flee. God told him to flee to a particular place,
the mountain (verses 17, 19).

When David was fleeing from the wrath of Saul, he said to himself:

‘I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than
that I should speedily escape [malat] into the land of the Philistines; and Saul
shall despair of me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: so shall I escape
[malat] out of his hand.’ (1 Samuel 27:1).

God promised to deliver Ebed-Melech the Ethiopian when Nebuchadnezzar
destroyed Jerusalem:

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 132 of 267
‘But I will deliver [malat] thee in that day, saith the LORD: and thou shalt not be
given into the hand of the men of whom thou art afraid. For I will surely deliver
[malat] thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sword, but thy life shall be for a prey
unto thee: because thou hast put thy trust in me, saith the LORD.’ (Jeremiah 39:18)

Before the fall of Babylon, God warned His people:

‘Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and deliver every man his soul: be not cut off in
her iniquity; for this is the time of the LORD's vengeance; he will render unto her
a recompense . . .My people, go ye out of the midst of her, and deliver ye every
man his soul from the fierce anger of the LORD.’ (Jeremiah 51:6, 45)

Psalm 124 describes how Israel escaped because the Lord was on their side:

"If it had not been the Lord who was on our side," let Israel now say — 2 "If it had
not been the Lord who was on our side, when men rose up against us, 3 Then they
would have swallowed us alive, when their wrath was kindled against us; 4 then
the waters would have overwhelmed us, the stream would have gone over our
soul; 5 then the swollen waters would have gone over our soul." 6 Blessed be the
Lord, who has not given us as prey to their teeth. 7 Our soul has escaped [malat]
as a bird from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have escaped
[malat]. 8 Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.”

In Isaiah 31:5 the words ‘defend,’ ‘deliver, ’and ‘preserve’ are all used
synonymously:

‘As birds flying, so will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will
deliver it; and passing over he will preserve [malat] it.’ (Isaiah 31:5).



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 133 of 267
Here are two texts from the psalmist:

“They cried to You, and were delivered [malat]; they trusted in You, and were
not ashamed.” (Psalm 22:5)

“Blessed is he who considers the poor; the Lord will deliver [malat] him in time
of trouble.” (Psalm 41:1)

We conclude our observations on the word malat by quoting two particularly
important verses because they relate directly to the last days (for more on the
relationship between Joel 2:32, Revelation 14 and Daniel 11, see the end of
these study notes):

‘And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall
be delivered [malat]: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance
[palat], as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whom the LORD shall call
[Revelation 17:17 tells us that those who are with Jesus in the final conflict
are called].’ (Joel 2:32).

‘And at that time [when the king of the north goes out with the intention of
slaying the remnant] shall Michael stand up [probation closes and Jesus
begins to reign over His kingdom], the great prince which standeth for the
children of thy people [Michael will defend spiritual Israel]: and there shall be
a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same
time: and at that time [at end of the time of trouble] thy people shall be
delivered [malat], every one that shall be found written in the book [their name
was retained during the investigative judgment].’ (Daniel 12:1).




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 134 of 267
We find the New Testament perspective of the word ‘escape,’ in Luke 21:34-
36 and 1 Thessalonians 5:1-3:

"But take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing,
drunkenness, and cares of this life and that Day come on you unexpectedly. 35 For
it will come as a snare on all those who dwell on the face of the whole earth. 36
Watch therefore, and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all
these things that will come to pass and to stand before the Son of Man."

“But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I
should write to you. 2 For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord
so comes as a thief in the night. 3 For when they say, "Peace and safety!" then
sudden destruction comes upon them, as labor pains upon a pregnant woman.
And they shall not escape.”

We must not only take into account the word ‘escape’ but also the expression
‘out of his hand’ that stands in contrast to ‘into his hand’. The expression ‘into
his hand’ means that a king or kingdom conquers another (Genesis 14:20;
32:16; Daniel 1:2). On the other hand, ‘out of his hand’ means the opposite
(Genesis 37:21; 2 Chronicles 28:5; Joshua 24:10; 1 Samuel 27:1; 2 Kings 18:29;
Jeremiah 34:3; Daniel 8:4, 7). Thus, the expression ‘escape or delivered out of
his hand’ means that Edom, Moab and Ammon will escape or be delivered from
the king of the north when he invades these lands. Why? Simply because those
who escape from these nations as Joel 2:32 tells us, flee to Jerusalem for
refuge.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 135 of 267
We shall have much more to say about the Hebrew word malat in our
comments on verse 45 and Daniel 12:1. However, here is a summary of what
we have discussed so far:

Although translated differently in the NKJV, the Hebrew words ‘escape’ in
Daniel 11:41 and ‘delivered’ in Daniel 12:1 are identical. This seems to indicate
that the ones who escaped from the hand of the king of the north in Daniel 11:41
are the very ones who will later be delivered at the end of the time of trouble in
Daniel 12:1.

The progression of Daniel 11:40-45 seems to indicate that the ones who
‘escape’ from the hand of the king of the north actually flee from Edom, Moab
and Ammon to seek refuge in Jerusalem or Mount Zion. When the king of the
north sets up the tents of his palace between the seas and the glorious holy
mountain, God’s remnant is safe inside Jerusalem.

Joel 2:32 underscores this by stating that when the heathen come against
Jerusalem (Joel 3) deliverance is found in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem.
Furthermore, it is clear that the Hebrew words malat and palat are
synonymous in Joel 2:32, a point that will become all the more important as we
continue our study. Revelation 14:20 makes it clear that the righteous are in
Jerusalem while the wicked are outside the city in the winepress intent on
delivering a death blow against those who are inside (see also Revelation
19:11-16).

The mention of deliverance of God’s people in the Time of Jacob’s Trouble
brings to mind the experience of Jacob in Genesis 32. Upon hearing that his
brother was coming against him with a band of 400 armed men, Jacob divided


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 136 of 267
his company into two groups so that at least one could escape (Genesis 32:8)
from the wrath of his brother. In his prayer, Jacob pleaded for God to deliver
(Genesis 32:11) him from Esau’s wrath. It is clear here that Esau foreshadows
the king of the north while Jacob foreshadows God’s remnant people.
Furthermore, the Angel with whom Jacob struggled was Michael, the deliverer!
Jacob named the place Peniel that means ‘face of God’ because He had seen God
face to face and survived.

“. . . Edom, Moab and the prominent people of Ammon . . .”

Edom, Moab and Ammon have one common denominator and it is that they
were all next of kin of Abraham, and thus of Israel. Edom was another name for
Esau and Moab and Ammon were sons of Lot, Abraham’s nephew.

Deuteronomy 2:8 refers to the residents of Edom as brethren of Israel:

"And when we passed beyond our brethren, the descendants of Esau who dwell
in Seir, away from the road of the plain, away from Elath and Ezion Geber, we
turned and passed by way of the Wilderness of Moab.”

Numbers 20:14-15 once again calls the Edomites brothers:

“Now Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom. Thus says your
brother Israel: 'You know all the hardship that has befallen us, 15 how our fathers
went down to Egypt, and we dwelt in Egypt a long time, and the Egyptians
afflicted us and our fathers.’”

It bears noting that the Old Testament never refers to any other nation near
Israel as a ‘brother of Israel’.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 137 of 267
Esau, the progenitor of the nation of Edom, was a profane fornicator who
despised his birthright for a plate of lentils (Hebrews 12:16, 17). However,
before we relegate Esau’s descendants to the group of the hopeless, we must
remember that some of the gentiles who came into the apostolic church, (that
James referred to as spiritual Edomites in Acts 15) were of the same stripe.
However, God was able to rescue them from their base behavior and they
became members of the covenant community (see 1 Corinthians 6:9-11;
Ephesians 2:11-13).

When Israel asked for permission to pass through the lands of Edom, Moab and
Ammon at the time of the Exodus, they refused (Judges 11:12-18). The
Edomites were enemies of God’s people as were the Moabites and the
Ammonites. In fact, Edom supported Babylon in the conquest of Jerusalem in
the year 586 BC (Psalm 137:8; Obadiah). The Edomites despised Israel (Isaiah
34; 63:1-6; Ezekiel 25:12).

Al three of these brother nations reviled God’s people at the Exodus and before
the Babylonian captivity (Zephaniah 2:8-10). However, later in their history,
after the Babylonian captivity, the prophet Isaiah predicted that they would
obey Israel:

“It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set His hand again the second
time to recover the remnant of His people who are left, from Assyria and Egypt,
from Pathros and Cush, from Elam and Shinar, from Hamath and the islands of
the sea. . . But they shall fly down upon the shoulder of the Philistines toward the
west; together they [the remnant] shall plunder the people of the East; they shall




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 138 of 267
lay their hand on Edom and Moab; and the people of Ammon shall obey them.”
(Isaiah 11:11, 14)

Clearly, God intended that literal Israel should fulfill this prophecy after the
Babylonian captivity. Zechariah 8:20-23 paints a similar picture of what God
intended:

"Thus says the Lord of hosts: 'Peoples shall yet come, inhabitants of many cities;
21 The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, ‘Let us continue to go


and pray before the Lord, and seek the Lord of hosts. I myself will go also.’ 22 Yes,
many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in
Jerusalem, and to pray before the Lord.' 23 "Thus says the Lord of hosts: 'In those
days ten men from every language of the nations shall grasp the sleeve of a
Jewish man, saying, "Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you."'"

Unfortunately, these promises did not find their fulfillment with literal Israel
because they did not meet the conditions. After the captivity, they shut
themselves away from the nations in a self-righteous armor and rejected Jesus.
Therefore, the prophecy would find a spiritual fulfillment during the Christian
dispensation.

In order to understand the spiritual application of Isaiah 11 and Zechariah 8
during the gospel dispensation, we must understand first what God intended
for literal Israel in the dispensation of the promise.

In the days of Joseph, Jacob and His family were scattered from the Promised
Land to Egypt and fell into bondage. However, the Lord extended His hand to
gather them to the Promised Land for the first time in the Exodus [notice the
expression ‘stretched out my hand’ in Exodus 3:20 and 7:4, 5].

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 139 of 267
Because of their continued rebellion against God, He scattered them from the
land a second time into Babylonian captivity. However, at the end of the
captivity, God gave their Babylonian oppressor a deadly wound (Daniel 5) and
gathered them for a second time to the Land (Ezra 1:1-4). Thus, as Isaiah 11
states, the Lord extended His hand the second time to gather literal Israel from
captivity.

After the captivity, it was God’s intention that literal Edom, Moab and Ammon
should obey or be subject to Israel. However, literal Israel continued their
rebellion, rejected the Lord Jesus, and once more they were scattered. The
Hebrew theocracy ended and God turned to spiritual Israel to fulfill His plans.

In several verses in the gospels, Jesus referred to literal Israel as ‘scattered’
although they lived at the time in the Land of Israel. Jesus explicitly taught that
He came to gather those who were scattered.

Jesus gave a profound spiritual interpretation of the gathering and scattering
prophecies of the Old Testament. He repeatedly explained that we must
understand       the    gathering       and     scattering     relationally       rather     than
geographically. As stated before, when Christ was on the earth the Jews were
gathered in the Land but in the eyes of Jesus, they were scattered because they
rejected Him.

Although Israel had many religious leaders, Matthew 9:36 tells us that Jesus had
compassion on the multitudes because they were scattered like sheep without
a shepherd:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 140 of 267
“But when He saw the multitudes, He was moved with compassion for them,
because they were weary and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd.”
(Matthew 9:36)

Jesus came to gather the sheep because the shepherds had proved unfaithful:

“But He answered and said, "I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house
of Israel." (Matthew 10:5, 6)

In Luke 11:23 Jesus explained that ‘gathering’ and ‘scattering’ is relational, not
geographical. If a person lives in the literal Land of Israel but rejects Jesus, that
person, in the eyes of God, is scattered:

“He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me
scatters”

When the Sanhedrin met for Jesus’ ecclesiastical trial, Caiaphas uttered a
prophecy that he himself did not understand:

“And one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, "You know
nothing at all, 50 nor do you consider that it is expedient for us that one man should
die for the people, and not that the whole nation should perish." 51 Now this he did
not say on his own authority; but being high priest that year he prophesied that
Jesus would die for the nation, 52 and not for that nation only, but also that He
would gather together in one the children of God who were scattered abroad.”
(John 11:51, 52)

Jesus had already predicted this gathering in when He said:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 141 of 267
“And other sheep [the Gentiles] I have which are not of this fold; them also I
must bring, and they will hear My voice; and there will be one flock and one
shepherd.” (John 10:14-16)

Jesus was not saying that He was like a shepherd. He was THE Faithful
Shepherd predicted in Ezekiel 34:11-16. He came to counteract the work of
the false shepherds of Israel who had not fed or cared for the sheep but rather
scattered them (cf. verses 22-24). The failure of the shepherds had led to the
scattering of the sheep and had caused the sheep to go astray from the
shepherd.

Christ’s mission as a second David was to gather to Himself all the sheep that
had gone astray. As we shall see, this gathering began on the Day of Pentecost
and continued throughout the early centuries of the Christian dispensation.

When Jesus was about to leave the Jewish temple for the last time and leave
it desolate, He said:

“O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are
sent to her! How often I wanted to gather you as a hen gathers her chicks under
her wings, but you were not willing! See, Your house is left to you desolate.”
(Matthew 23:37, 38)

In John 4:23, 24 Jesus explained to the Samaritan woman that worshiping in
holy places would end when the Holy Spirit fell upon the disciples on the Day
of Pentecost (see verses 13, 14). To gather in Jerusalem while rejecting Jesus
is to scatter. Literal Israel today is still rejecting Jesus and therefore, though
they are in the Land, they are spiritually scattered.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 142 of 267
Jesus said to His disciples:

‘For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the
midst of them.” (Matthew 18:20)

In the Christian dispensation, the Holy Land is where two or three gather in
Christ’s name. That is to say, we must understand Israel today spiritually and
relationally and the Land globally. Today, Zion/Jerusalem is not in the Middle
East; it is where Jesus is and Jesus is in two places. He is present spiritually in
a spiritual temple (the Church) on earth globally (see, 2 Thessalonians 2;
Ephesians 2:20-22; 1 Peter 2:4-10) and in the literal temple in heaven locally.
On the other hand, we are in the heavenly temple spiritually and in the future,
we will be in the literal heavenly temple.

The context of Matthew 18:20 (verses 15-19) indicates that if a person does not
gather to Jesus, he is a spiritual gentile. However, it is also possible for a
spiritual gentile to become a spiritual Jew (see Galatians 4:21-31).

In 2 Corinthians 1:20, the apostle Paul explained that all the promises of God
would find their fulfillment only in and through Christ with the Church:

“For all the promises of God in Him are yes and in Him Amen, to the glory of God
through us.”

The important factor in the gathering prophecies is Jesus, not the Land.
Galatians 3:16, 28, 29 explains that God made the promises (including the
Land, Romans 4:13) to Abraham and his Seed and his Seed is Christ. When we
accept Christ, all the promises become ours in Him.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 143 of 267
Jesus relived the history of Israel and was victorious where they failed. When
we accept Christ, His victorious history becomes ours and therefore we inherit
the covenant promises in Him. Those who reject Christ cannot inherit the
promises because they are outside of Him.

Ephesians 1:9, 10 tells us that all things gather in one only in Christ:

“. . . that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together
in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth — in
Him.”

Zechariah 13:7 contains a remarkable prophecy about the scattering of the
disciples when the temple guard arrested Jesus:

“’Awake, O sword, against My Shepherd, against the Man who is My Companion,’
says the Lord of hosts. ‘Strike the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; then
I will turn My hand against the little ones.’”

Matthew quoted this prophecy in chapter 26:30, 31:

“Then Jesus said to them, ‘All of you will be made to stumble because of Me this
night, for it is written: 'I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be
scattered.'”

However, on the Day of Pentecost, His scattered disciples gathered in one
place, all in one accord. Isaiah 43:5-7 contains a magnificent gathering
prophecy that Jesus alluded to in Luke 13:28-30; see also Matthew 8:11, 12):

“Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your descendants from the east, and
gather you from the west; I will say to the north, 'Give them up!' and to the south,


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 144 of 267
'Do not keep them back!' Bring My sons from afar, and My daughters from the
ends of the earth—everyone who is called by My name, whom I have created for
My glory; I have formed him, yes, I have made him."

This gathering to Christ began its fulfillment on the Day of Pentecost when
believers in Christ from 13 different nations gathered with one accord and
received the Holy Spirit:

“When the Day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one
place. 7 Then they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, "Look,
are not all these who speak Galileans? How is it that we hear, each in our own
language in which we were born? Parthians and Medes and Elamites, those
dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and
Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene, visitors from Rome,
both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs — we hear them speaking in our
own tongues the wonderful works of God." (Acts 2:1, 7-11).

Psalm 133 had already predicted this gathering of minds and hearts on the Day
of Pentecost by referring to the anointing of Aaron as the high priest:

“Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity! 2 It is like the precious oil upon the head, running down on the beard, the
beard of Aaron, running down on the edge of his garments. 3 It is like the dew of
Hermon, descending upon the mountains of Zion; for there the Lord commanded
the blessing—life forevermore.”

The anointing of Aaron with oil as high priest of literal Israel was a type of the
anointing of Jesus as High Priest of spiritual Israel in the heavenly sanctuary on
the day of Pentecost.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 145 of 267
According to Isaiah 49:6: God intended that Israel should be the medium
through which to reach the world:

“Indeed He says: 'It is too small a thing that You should be My Servant to raise up
the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved ones of Israel; I will also give You
as a light to the Gentiles, that You should be My salvation to the ends of the
earth.'"

In Acts 13:46, 47 the apostle Paul quoted Isaiah 49:6 and applied it to the
ingathering of the Gentiles. The church (spiritual Israel) was now to fulfill the
commission that God gave to ancient Israel. God did not reject Israel; He
rejected the Jewish theocracy as the means to reach the world with the gospel.
In the Old Testament God’s plan was for the nations to come to Israel’s light
(Isaiah 60:3) and thus inherit God’s blessings. In the New Testament, the plan
is for the church to go the nations (Matthew 28:19) and gather them to Jesus
and the spiritual Holy Land, the Church:

“Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, "It was necessary that the word of
God should be spoken to you first; but since you reject it, and judge yourselves
unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles. 47 For so the Lord
has commanded us: 'I have set you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be
for salvation to the ends of the earth.'"

What makes persons true Israelites is not that they gather to the Holy Land
but rather to the Holy Lord! If they gather in the Holy Land but reject the Holy
Lord, then they are scattered. The Land was holy because God was there. God
was not there because the Land was holy!



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 146 of 267
With the previous remarks in mind, we now need to return to the prophecy of
Isaiah 11. This symbolic interpretation of Edom, Moab and Ammon in Isaiah
11 finds corroboration in the prophecy about Edom in Amos 9:11, 12:

"On that day I will raise up the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down
[because of the Babylonian captivity], and repair its damages; I will raise up
its ruins, and rebuild it as in the days of old [the gathering after the captivity];
12 that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the Gentiles who are


called by My name," says the Lord who does this thing.”

James referred to this prophecy at the Jerusalem Council in the year 49 AD and
applied it to winning the Gentiles through the preaching of the gospel by the
power of the Holy Spirit after the Day of Pentecost. James interprets Edom
symbolically as the residue of men who were not originally part of the covenant
community but sought after the Lord. Many who undoubtedly had been
enemies of the apostles came over to the side of the Lord. Paul and Barnabas
gave a report about how the Gentiles were embracing the message and joining
the church:

“Then all the multitude kept silent and listened to Barnabas and Paul declaring
how many miracles and wonders God had worked through them among the
Gentiles. 13 And after they had become silent, James answered, saying, ‘Men and
brethren, listen to me: 14 Simon has declared how God at the first visited the
Gentiles to take out of them a people for His name. 15 And with this, the words
of the prophets agree, just as it is written: 16 'After this I will return and will
rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down; I will rebuild its ruins, and
I will set it up; 17 So that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, even all the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 147 of 267
Gentiles who are called by My name, says the Lord who does all these things.'”
(Acts 15:12-17)

Ellen White then explained how the message went to the entire world under
the power of the early rain and converts flocked to the church (under the
latter rain, the spiritual Edomites will once again flock to Mt. Zion or Jerusalem)

“Then the glad tidings of a risen Savior were carried to the uttermost bounds of
the inhabited world. The church beheld converts flocking to her from all
directions. Believers were reconverted. Sinners united with Christians in
seeking the pearl of great price. The prophecy was fulfilled, The weak shall be ‘as
David,’ and the house of David ‘as the angel of the Lord.’ Zechariah 12:8.”

Many of the Jews that the religious leaders had deceived also embraced the
message after Pentecost and joined the Church:

“In Christ's day many heard the gospel, but their minds were darkened by false
teaching, and they did not recognize in the humble Teacher of Galilee, the one
sent of God. However, after Christ's ascension His enthronement in His
mediatorial kingdom was signalized by the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. On the
day of Pentecost the Spirit was given. Christ's witnesses proclaimed the power of
the risen Savior. The light of heaven penetrated the darkened minds of those
who had been deceived by the enemies of Christ. They now saw Him exalted to
be ‘a Prince and a Savior, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.’
Acts 5:31. They saw Him encircled with the glory of heaven, with infinite treasures
in His hands to bestow upon all who would turn from their rebellion. As the
apostles set forth the glory of the Only-Begotten of the Father, three thousand
souls were convicted.” Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 121


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 148 of 267
Jesus told Paul that he had a people even in pagan Corinth:

“Now the Lord spoke to Paul in the night by a vision, "Do not be afraid, but speak,
and do not keep silent; 10 for I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you;
for I have many people in this city." (1 Corinthians 18:9, 10)

The sheep that the Jewish teachers had ignored and scattered, at Pentecost
Jesus began to gather through the medium of the Church. Ellen White wrote:

“That which God purposed to do for the world through Israel, the chosen nation,
He will finally accomplish through His church on earth today. . . Never has
the Lord been without true representatives on this earth who have made His
interests their own. These witnesses for God are numbered among the spiritual
Israel, and to them will be fulfilled all the covenant promises made by Jehovah
to His ancient people. . . To spiritual Israel have been restored the privileges
accorded the people of God at the time of their deliverance from Babylon.” Ellen
G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 713-715

The spiritual application of Isaiah 11 is clear. At Pentecost God began to gather
spiritual Israel for the first time to a spiritual land, the Christian Church (for a
fuller study of the gathering and scattering prophecies, see my full study,
“Prophetic Principles: The Nuts and Bolts of Bible Prophecy”, volume 2, pp. 283-
295 available from Secrets Unsealed).

Believers came from east and west, north and south, from the highways and
byways into the Christian Church. Thus, the prophecy of Zechariah 8:20-23
found its fulfillment. Converts flocked to the church from everywhere.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 149 of 267
Then apostasy entered the church and God’s spiritual people were scattered
and experienced a spiritual captivity in spiritual Babylon (Luke 21:24). It is no
coincidence that Martin Luther believed that the harlot of Revelation 17 was
the papacy. He actually wrote a treatise titled, Prelude on the Babylonian
Captivity of the Church. According to Wikipedia:

“Luther accuses the Roman church and the papacy of keeping the church in
captivity, equating Rome with the biblical Babylon that exiled the Israelites from
their homeland, holding them captive in Babylon.”

Ellen White compared Israel’s Babylonian captivity with the captivity and
scattering of God’s Church during the 1260 years:

“The darkness of error and superstition threatened to blot out a knowledge of true
religion. God's church on earth was as verily in captivity during this long period
of relentless persecution as were the children of Israel held captive in Babylon
during the period of the exile.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 714

However, at the end of this period God delivered His scattered remnant by
giving the oppressor, (the Roman Catholic papacy) a deadly wound. After the
captivity, God began gathering His scattered people the second time (the first
time was at Pentecost) from every conceivable denomination, a process that
began in 1798 and continued through the Great Disappointment in 1844 and
beyond. Thousands upon thousands from every Protestant denomination
joined the preaching of the judgment hour message. Even secular worldlings
joined the movement. Most of those who joined the Advent Movement were
members of various Protestant Churches. When they heard the call to come out
of spiritual Babylon they did and gathered with the faithful remnant movement.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 150 of 267
This process of gathering God’s scattered people did not end in 1844. Since
then, God has been gathering his people with Present Truth for the final conflict.
This gathering process will reach a climax when God pours out the Latter Rain
and thousands upon thousands will leave spiritual Babylon—the fallen
Christian churches—and gather with the remnant.

In Early Writings, pp. 74-76 Ellen White referred to the gathering that began in
the time of the end by strongly alluding to the prophecy of Isaiah 11:11-14.
Notice that no longer are Edom, Moab and Ammon geographical entities. These
nations represent the gathering of God’s people who were scattered during the
1260 years:

“September 23, the Lord showed me that He had stretched out His hand the
second time to recover the remnant of His people, and that efforts must be
redoubled in this gathering time. In the scattering, [spiritual] Israel was
smitten and torn, but now in the gathering time God will heal and bind up His
people. In the scattering, efforts made to spread the truth had but little effect,
accomplished but little or nothing; but in the gathering, when God has set His
hand to gather His people, efforts to spread the truth will have their designed
effect. All should be united and zealous in the work. I saw that it was wrong for
any to refer to the scattering for examples to govern us now in the gathering;
for if God should do no more for us now than He did then, Israel would never be
gathered.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 74

In Prophets and Kings, pp. 714, 715 Ellen White continued the quotation
mentioned before, describing how, in every part of the earth, multitudes will
respond to the call to come out of spiritual Babylon to join the remnant:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 151 of 267
“But, thank God, His church is no longer in bondage. To spiritual Israel have been
restored the privileges accorded the people of God at the time of their deliverance
from Babylon. In every part of the earth, men and women are responding to the
Heaven-sent message that John the revelator prophesied would be proclaimed
prior to the second coming of Christ: ‘Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the
hour of His judgment is come.’ Revelation 14:7.

No longer have the hosts of evil power to keep the church captive for ‘Babylon is
fallen, is fallen, that great city,’ which hath ‘made all nations drink of the wine of
the wrath of her fornication;’ and to spiritual Israel is given the message, "Come
out of her, My people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues." Verse 8; 18:4. As the captive exiles heeded the message, "Flee out
of the midst of Babylon" (Jeremiah 51:6), and were restored to the Land of
Promise, so those who fear God today are heeding the message to withdraw from
spiritual Babylon, and soon they are to stand as trophies of divine grace in the
earth made new, the heavenly Canaan.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp.
714, 715

Isaiah 11:14 tells us that after the captivity, these nations would obey Israel!
This did not happen with literal Israel after the captivity because they did not
meet the conditions. However, the fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah did not
fail. Its fulfillment occurs with spiritual Israel during the Christian dispensation.
Toward the end of the Christian dispensation, Daniel 11 tells us that Edom,
Moab and Ammon will escape from the hand of the king of the north and flee
for refuge in spiritual Jerusalem—the faithful in the remnant church.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 152 of 267
Ellen White referred to the prophecy of Isaiah 11:14 and applied it to those who
came out of Babylon—the apostate Protestant churches—in the great Advent
Movement of 1844 culminating with a greater exodus into the remnant church
at the outpouring of the Latter Rain. In fact, in a very important chapter in Early
Writings (pp. 277-279) Ellen White wrote that the Midnight Cry of the Millerite
movement foreshadowed a far greater exodus from spiritual Babylon during
the outpouring of the Latter Rain and the Loud Cry.

Just before the close of probation, there will be a repetition of Pentecost, only
this time the faithful in God’s remnant church (whom the apostles foreshadow)
will receive the Latter Rain. The faithful will preach Present Truth to every
nation, kindred, tongue and people and many will come out of Babylon and
‘obey’ the message of God’s people. This will mark the final fulfillment of the
prophecy of Amos 9:11, 12. Multitudes will come out of Babylon to join God’s
remnant people in the ‘Mount of the Congregation’, Jerusalem. Ellen White
described the powerful preaching of the apostles under the Early Rain:

“Then the glad tidings of a risen Savior were carried to the uttermost bounds of
the inhabited world. The church beheld converts flocking to her from all
directions. Believers were reconverted. Sinners united with Christians in seeking
the pearl of great price.”

Then Ellen White predicted a repeat of this mass exodus during the period of
the Latter Rain:

“These scenes are to be repeated, and with greater power. The outpouring of
the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost was the former rain, but the latter rain will
be more abundant.” Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 121


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 153 of 267
Ellen White even went so far as to say that the prophecies that found their
fulfillment in the former rain would repeat during the Latter Rain:

“The great work of the gospel is not to close with less manifestation of the power
of God than marked its opening. The prophecies that were fulfilled in the
outpouring of the former rain at the opening of the gospel are again to be
fulfilled in the latter rain at its close. Here are ‘the times of refreshing’ to which
the apostle Peter looked forward when he said: ‘Repent ye therefore, and be
converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall
come from the presence of the Lord; and He shall send Jesus.’ Acts 3:19, 20.

“The work will be similar to that of the Day of Pentecost. As the ‘former rain’ was
given, in the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at the opening of the gospel, to cause
the upspringing of the precious seed, so the ‘latter rain’ will be given at its close
for the ripening of the harvest. ‘Then shall we know if we follow on to know the
Lord: His going forth is prepared as the morning; and He shall come unto us as
the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.’ Hosea 6:3. ‘Be glad then, ye
children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God: for He hath given you the former
rain moderately, and He will cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain,
and the latter rain.’ Joel 2:23. ‘In the last days, saith God, I will pour out of My
Spirit upon all flesh." "And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the
name of the Lord shall be saved.’ Acts 2:17, 21. Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 611, 612

Ellen White predicted that many members of Protestant churches whom their
religious leaders had deceived would come out and join the remnant:



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 154 of 267
In the last remnant of time, there will be a new and greater Pentecost, only this
time the faithful in God’s remnant church (whom the apostles foreshadow) will
receive the Latter Rain and preach Present Truth to every nation, kindred,
tongue and people. Thousands upon thousands will respond to the message,
come out of Babylon, and find refuge in spiritual Jerusalem. Then the prophecy
of Amos will reach its final fulfillment. In this ‘gathering time’, precious jewels,
from the apostate world, will leave their former associates and embrace the
precious truth. Thus, Ellen White wrote:

“I was pointed to those who claim to be Adventists, but who reject the present
truth, and saw that they were crumbling and that the hand of the Lord was in
their midst to divide and scatter them now in the gathering time, so that the
precious jewels among them, who have formerly been deceived, may have
their eyes opened to see their true state. And now when the truth is presented to
them by the Lord's messengers, they are prepared to listen, and see its beauty
and harmony, and to leave their former associates and errors, embrace the
precious truth and stand where they can define their position.” Ellen G. White,
Early Writings, p. 69

“Standard after standard was left to trail in the dust as company after company
from the Lord's army joined the foe [the shaking] and tribe after tribe from the
ranks of the enemy united with the commandment-keeping people of God.” Ellen
G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, p. 41

In the chapter on ‘Counterfeit Revivals’ in The Great Controversy, Ellen White
wrote that the various Christian churches have true followers of Christ who will
respond to the call to come out of Babylon:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 155 of 267
“Notwithstanding the widespread declension of faith and piety, there are true
followers of Christ in these churches. Before the final visitation of God's
judgments upon the earth there will be among the people of the Lord such a
revival of primitive godliness as has not been witnessed since apostolic times. The
Spirit and power of God will be poured out upon His children. At that time, many
will separate themselves from those churches in which the love of this world
has supplanted love for God and His word. Many, both of ministers and people,
will gladly accept those great truths which God has caused to be proclaimed at
this time to prepare a people for the Lord's second coming.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, p. 464

“Thousands in the eleventh hour will see and acknowledge the truth. . . . These
conversions to truth will be made with a rapidity that will surprise the church,
and God's name alone will be glorified.” Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume
2, p. 16 (1890) Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 212

Luke 17:29, 30 describes God’s call for Lot to leave Sodom before its
destruction.

“Likewise as it was also in the days of Lot: They ate, they drank, they bought, they
sold, they planted, they built; 29 but on the day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained
fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. 30 Even so will it be in the
day when the Son of Man is revealed.”

In Daniel 11 describes God’s call to Lot’s descendants (Ammon and Moab) to
get out of spiritual Babylon before God destroys it. Ellen White drew the
following parallel:



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 156 of 267
“Servants of God, endowed with power from on high with their faces lighted up,
and shining with holy consecration, went forth to proclaim the message from
heaven. Souls that were scattered all through the religious bodies answered to the
call, and the precious were hurried out of the doomed churches, as Lot was
hurried out of Sodom before her destruction.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p.
279
In several statements, Ellen White described how God would rescue faithful
members in other churches before the close of probation:

“There are many souls to come out of the ranks of the world, out of the churches-
-even the Catholic Church--whose zeal will far exceed that of those who have stood
in rank and file to proclaim the truth heretofore.” Ellen G. White, Selected
Messages, volume 3, pp. 386, 387 (1889)

“In the eighteenth chapter of the Revelation the people of God are called upon to
come out of Babylon. According to this scripture, many of God's people must still
be in Babylon. In what religious bodies do we now find the greater part of the
followers of Christ? Without doubt, in the various churches professing the
Protestant faith.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 383

“Notwithstanding the spiritual darkness and alienation from God that exist in the
churches which constitute Babylon, the great body of Christ's true followers are
still to be found in their communion. There are many of these who have never seen
the special truths for this time.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 390

Something similar occurred in the Apostolic Church. Saul of Tarsus was a
deadly enemy of Christianity like the Edomites, Ammonites, and Moabites
however, God rescued him and he joined the apostolic remnant.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 157 of 267
It is vital to remember that when God delivers spiritual Edom, Moab and
Ammon from the hand of the king of the north, they will flee to Jerusalem
because in Jerusalem and in Zion there is deliverance (Joel 2:32). Those who
escape are the ones whose names, God retained in the book during the
investigative judgment (Daniel 12:1; Isaiah 4:1-3)

Jesus is gathering His spiritual Israel today to the spiritual Holy Land—the
Church. Those who gather spiritually to the Lord now will eventually gather
literally to Jesus in the heavenly city and the New Earth. Because they gathered
to Jesus spiritually, they will gather with Him literally in the heavenly kingdom
at the second coming. For this reason, before the second coming, Israel and
Jerusalem are spiritual and global but after the second coming God’s people
gather in literal heavenly Jerusalem.

At His second coming, Jesus will gather spiritual Israel from the four corners of
the earth and take them to the literal New Jerusalem in a literal heaven.

“Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of
the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory. 31 And He will send His angels with a great
sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other.” (Matthew 24:31)

“He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of Egypt shall
not escape.”

The Old Testament uses the idiom ‘stretch out the hand’ to describe an act of
conquest and destruction (Exodus 3:20; 9:15; I Samuel 24:6, 9, 11, 23).


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 158 of 267
The word ‘eretz describes countries or nations as we can see in the following
examples:

    Genesis 26:3, 4: God promised to give Abraham all the countries or lands
       of Palestine.

    Genesis 41:57: All the countries came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph.

    Isaiah 8:9: The king of Assyria conquered all the far countries.

    Jeremiah 23:3, 8: God promised to gather His people from all the
       countries or lands where He scattered them (see also Jeremiah 32:37;
       Ezekiel 11:16, 17; 20:34)

    Ezekiel 5:5, 6: God set Israel in the midst of the countries that
       surrounded her. In these verses, nations and countries are synonymous.

    Ezekiel 34:13: These verses place the word ‘countries’ in contrast to the
       land of Israel. This shows that the countries of Daniel 11:42 are those
       beyond the borders of the glorious land (see also 36:24)

    Daniel 9:7: The countries were beyond the borders of Israel.

    Zechariah 10:9, 10: The far countries in these verses are Egypt and
       Assyria.

Verse 40 tells us that the king of the north invaded the north countries
(Lebanon, Syria, Tyre and Sidon). In verse 41, he enters the glorious land,
Palestine. He then moves east and south into Edom, Moab and Ammon who
escape from his hand and flee for refuge in Jerusalem. Then in verses 42 and 43
he overcomes the countries south of the glorious land—Egypt, Ethiopia and

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 159 of 267
Libya. The picture is one of a devastating and universal conquest. The invasion
begins in the north at the river Euphrates and ends in the south at the River of
Egypt.

The word ‘escape’ in verse 41 is malat; the identical word that Daniel 12:1
renders ‘delivered’. In the King James Version, we would never guess that those
who escape to Jerusalem in Daniel 11:41 are those who are later delivered in
Daniel 12:1 because in Daniel 11:41 the word malat is translated ‘escape’
whereas in Daniel 12:1 the same word is translated ‘delivered’. We therefore
know for sure that there will be spiritual Edomites, Moabites and Ammonites
in Jerusalem and Michael will deliver them there from the hand of the king of
the north.

In verse 42 the word ‘escape’ is not the same that appears in verse 41. The word
‘escape’ in verse 42 is palat. However, we shall see below that malat and palat
are synonymous.

Other texts use palat to describe escaping from destruction:

    Joshua 8:22: Ai would not be able to escape from Israel’s sword.
    2 Kings 19:31: When Senaquerib invaded Israel, a remnant escaped out
       of Jerusalem (see also Isaiah 37:22)
    Ezra 9:8: God left a remnant to escape from Israel after the captivity.
       Verse 7 is parallel to Daniel 11:33.
    Jeremiah 44:14, 28: A remnant escaped to Jerusalem.
    Jeremiah 50:28, 29: God’s people escaped but Babylon did not.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 160 of 267
The New Testament uses the word ‘escape’ in two significant places, both
relating to the calamities that will occur leading up to the second coming. The
first is Luke 21:36:

“Watch therefore, and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all
these things that will come to pass and to stand before the Son of Man."

The second text is 1 Thessalonians 5:3 where Paul predicted that the
unprepared would not be able to escape destruction when Jesus comes:

“For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in
the night. 3 For when they say, "Peace and safety!" then sudden destruction
comes upon them, as labor pains upon a pregnant woman. And they shall not
escape.”

Ellen White describes how every country on the globe will be unable to escape
from the stretched out hand of the papacy:

“As America, the land of religious liberty shall unite with the papacy in forcing the
conscience and compelling men to honor the false sabbath, the people of every
country on the globe will be led to follow her example.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, p. 18

“Foreign nations will follow the example of the United States. Though she leads
out, yet the same crisis will come upon our people in all parts of the world.” Ellen
G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, p. 395

“But in this homage to the papacy the United States will not be alone. The
influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is still



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 161 of 267
far from being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 579

“History will be repeated. False religion will be exalted. The first day of the week,
a common working possessing no sanctity whatever, will be set up as was the
image of Babylon. All nations and tongues and peoples will be commanded to
worship this spurious sabbath. . . . The decree enforcing the worship of this day is
to go forth to all the world.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 134

“The whole world is to be stirred with enmity against Seventh-day Adventists,
because they will not yield homage to the papacy, by honoring Sunday, the
institution of this antichristian power. It is the purpose of Satan to cause them to
be blotted from the earth, in order that his supremacy of the world may not be
disputed.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 37

“Those who trample upon God's law make human laws which they will force the
people to accept. Men will devise and counsel and plan what they will do. The
whole world keeps Sunday, they say, and why should not this people, who are so
few in number, do according to the laws of the land?” Ellen G. White, Manuscript
163, 1897, and Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 136

“Every nation will be involved. Of this time, John the Revelator declares:
[Revelation 18:3-7; 17:13, 14, quoted]. "These have one mind." There will be a
universal bond of union, one great harmony, a confederacy of Satan's forces.”
Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 137

Of particular importance in our study of verse 42 is Joel 2:32 where the prophet
uses the words malat and palat synonymously. The reason why this text is so
important is that it bears a direct relationship with Revelation 14:14-20 where

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 162 of 267
all of God’s faithful people have taken refuge in Jerusalem to escape the wrath
of the wicked who gathered in the winepress outside the city (consider the
succeeding context in Joel 3). We shall have occasion to consider this verse
more fully when we study Daniel 12:1

‘And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall
be delivered [malat: the same word in Daniel 11:41 and Daniel 12:1], for in
Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance [palat: the same word that
is translated ‘escape’ in Daniel 11:42] as the LORD hath said, and in the
remnant whom the Lord shall call’ [the word ‘call’ is also used in Revelation
17:14 to refer to those who are with Jesus].

Comments on Verse 43

“He shall have power over the treasures of gold and silver, and over all the
precious things of Egypt; also the Libyans and Ethiopians shall follow at his
heels.”

During the 1260 years, the king of the north accumulated great riches at the
expense of the political powers of Europe. When the deadly wound heals the
king of the north will continue accumulating great riches (Revelation 17:4;
18:11-13, 16). Through its influence upon the United States it will control the
world economy in such a way that it will be able to forbid buying and selling
(Revelation 13:15).

The Bible sometimes couples Ethiopia, Libya and Egypt together (Ezekiel 30:1-
6). In the case of Daniel 11, Libya and Ethiopia are helpers of the king of the




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 163 of 267
north. Ezekiel 38:5 describes both of these countries as allies of Gog who he
comes from the land of Magog in the north.

The expression ‘shall follow at his heels’ is variously translated as, ‘shall be his
helpers’, ‘shall follow in his train’ (ESV), ‘shall be his servants’ (LB) ’will obey
him’ (NCV), ‘will submit to him’ (NET), ‘will surrender to him’ (God’s Word).
The CEV translates: “He will also conquer Libya and Ethiopia” (see also
Romans 4:12; 1 John 2:6).

Libya in antiquity (before it became an oil-producing nation) was poverty-
stricken. Most of the country is desert where there is no capacity to produce
food. Thus, in biblical times it represents the poor nations of the world today.
On the other hand, Ethiopia in antiquity was a very rich and prosperous nation.
The country was renowned for its trading with Egypt and central Africa. It was,
so to speak, a ‘capitalist country’. Products included ivory, animal skins, myrrh,
ostrich feathers and cattle. It was a rich country because of its trading capacity.
Thus, it can represent the rich nations of the world today. In geopolitical
terminology, the word ‘north’ represents the rich nations and the word ‘south’
represents the poor ones. Thus, Malachi Martin wrote:

“On the modern map of world shame that is the subject of so much of John Paul’s
attention, North and South do not figure as precise geographical terms. Instead,
they are global frontiers where wealth and poverty divide not only nations, but
societies within nations.” Malachi Martin, The Keys of this Blood, pp. 163, 164.

The harlot of Revelation 17 is a symbol of the Roman Catholic papacy. Although
it is the smallest nation in the world, it is incredibly rich. Its temples and
cathedrals are full of precious works of art, gold, silver, precious stones,


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 164 of 267
priceless images, glass stained windows, and its banking system does business
with all the nations of the world. Thus, verse 4 describes the harlot as ‘arrayed
in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls
(see also Revelation 18:11-13, 16).

As we have already seen, Egypt appears to represent the secular nations of the
world:

“The Lord God of Israel is to execute judgment upon the gods of this world as upon
the gods of Egypt. With fire and flood, plagues and earthquakes, He will spoil the
whole land. Then His redeemed people will exalt His name and make it glorious in
the earth. Shall not those who are living in the last remnant of this earth's history
become intelligent in regard to God's lessons?” Ellen G. White, Manuscript
Releases, volume 10, pp. 240, 241

“The plagues upon Egypt when God was about to deliver Israel, were similar in
character to those more terrible and extensive judgments which are to fall upon
the world just before the final deliverance of God's people.” Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 627, 628

“I am filled with sadness when I think of our condition as a people. The Lord has
not closed heaven to us, but our own course of continual backsliding has
separated us from God. Pride, covetousness, and love of the world have lived in
the heart without fear of banishment or condemnation. Grievous and
presumptuous sins have dwelt among us. And yet the general opinion is that the
church is flourishing, and that peace and spiritual prosperity are in all her
borders. The church has turned back from following Christ her leader, and is
steadily retreating toward Egypt.” Ellen G. White, Christian Service, pp. 38, 39


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 165 of 267
“Many are not growing strong, because they do not take God at his word. They are
conforming to the world. Every day they pitch their tents nearer to Egypt, when
they should encamp a day's march nearer the heavenly Canaan. We need
individually to ask strength and grace from Heaven, that we may resist the
temptation to assimilate to the world.” Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times,
March 6, 1884

Comments on Verse 44

“But news from the east and the north shall trouble him. . .

When the king of the north is in Egypt, tidings from the north and the east
trouble him. The question is this, where are these tidings coming from? What is
north and east of Egypt? The answer is Israel and more specifically Mt.
Zion/Jerusalem. These tidings are coming from Mt. Zion/Jerusalem.

What are the tidings? The word ‘tidings’ is variously translated as ‘tidings’
(1Samuel 4:19; 2Samuel 13:30; Psalm 112:7; Jeremiah 49:23), ‘news’ (Proverbs
25:25), ‘doctrine’ (Isaiah 28:9), ‘report’ (Proverbs 15:30; Isaiah 53:1) and
‘rumor’ (Jeremiah 49:14; 51:46; Obadiah 1). The reference in Obadiah 1
explains that a ‘rumor from the LORD’ is an ‘ambassador sent among the
heathen.’ In other words, it is a message from the LORD through the
instrumentality of an ambassador or representative.

In Last Day Events, p. 208 Ellen White explains this ‘news’ as the Loud Cry of
Revelation 18:1-6. You will notice, however, that the news does not come from
the literal north and east. The message is global:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 166 of 267
“The message of the angel following the third is now to be given to all parts of
the world. It is to be the harvest message, and the whole earth will be lighted
with the glory of God.” Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 208

“When the storm of persecution really breaks upon us, . . . then will the message
of the third angel swell to a loud cry, and the whole earth will be lightened with
the glory of the Lord.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies of the Church, p. 401

So this is the question that confronts us, if the north and east are not literal but
symbolic, what do they represent?

In antiquity north was in heaven, that is, up. This is why Isaiah 14:12-14 tells
us that Lucifer wanted to ascend and occupy God’s throne in the sides of the
north. According to Jesus Himself, Jerusalem and Zion are in the sides of the
north (Psalm 48:1, 2; Matthew 5:35, 36). In Ezekiel 1:4ff God’s cosmic chariot
throne arrives in Jerusalem from the north, that is, from heaven. In Isaiah 41:25,
Cyrus the great, the deliverer of Israel from Babylonian captivity, came from the
north, dried up the River Euphrates and there was none to help Babylon.

The east is also God’s point of the compass. Luke 1:78 tells us that Jesus came
into this world by way of the east because He came to enlighten the world. The
star that announced the birth of Jesus came from the east (Matthew 2:2, 9). At
the second coming Jesus will come from the east (Matthew 24:27; Revelation
16:12). When God returned to the Jerusalem temple after the captivity, he did
so from the east (Ezekiel 43:1, 2; 47:1-3). After the millennium, Christ will place
His feet on the Mount of Olives that is east of Jerusalem (Zechariah 14:4).

There can be no doubt that God’s points of the compass are north and east
because the sun rises in the east and reaches its greatest intensity in the north

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 167 of 267
when it is directly overhead. The positive points of the quadrant in math are
north and east while the negative points of the quadrant are west and south.
West is where the darkness begins and south (directly underneath) is where
the darkness of midnight reaches its deepest intensity. The south is thus the
realm of darkness, a denial of God and religion (Exodus 5:2; 10:21 22; 14:20).
It is a secular government without God and religion. This is why the beast that
represents the rise of Communism/Secularism rises from the abyss.

After the close of probation, people will hunger and thirst for the Word of God
and ‘wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east’ seeking the
Word of God but shall not be able to find it (Amos 8:11, 12). It is rather obvious
that people would not seek for the Word of God which is light (Psalm 119:105,
130) in the west and in the south where darkness reigns! The north is not a
denial of the existence of God and religion but rather the establishment of a
false God and a false religion. This is the spirit of Babylon.

What are these tidings from the north and from the east? Is it the news about
the second coming or even about the ‘third’ coming of Jesus after the
millennium? The answer to these questions is no. The order of events of Daniel
11 proves that the tidings are given in the end time after 1798 (Daniel 11:40)
but before the close of probation and the time of trouble (Daniel 12:1) when the
king of the north finally comes to his end.

The book of Revelation unlocks the prophecy of Daniel 11 and helps us identify
what the tidings are and when God’s people will proclaim them.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 168 of 267
“The book of Daniel is unsealed in the revelation to John, and carries us forward
to the last scenes of this earth's history.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers
and Gospel Workers, p. 115

As we have proved elsewhere, the beast of Revelation 13:1-10 represents the
Roman Catholic papacy. This power ruled for 42 months (from 538 to 1798)
and then received a deadly wound. However, prophecy predicts that the wound
would be healed (Revelation 13:3) and the whole world would wonder after
the beast and worship it. Daniel 11:40-45 describes the healing of the wound as
the king of the north overwhelms the world after the king of the south ‘pushes
at him’.

The three angels’ messages from heaven announce tidings or a warning to
worship the Creator rather than the beast (the king of the north). After God’s
people proclaim the three angels’ messages they are pictured as gathered in
Jerusalem while the wicked are portrayed as outside the city in the winepress,
intent on destroying them (Revelation 14:18-20). The winepress is the ‘place’
where the king of the north strategically pitches ‘the tents of his palace’ with
the intention of wiping out the remnant (the faithful remnant church) who has
fled to Jerusalem to find refuge.

It is obvious that the three angels’ messages enrage the king of the north/the
beast even to the point of influencing the beast from the earth to forbid
commercial activities and to give a death decree (Revelation 13:15, cf. Daniel
11:44; Revelation 14:18-20 in the light of Joel 3). When God’s people are
gathered in Zion and in Jerusalem (Revelation 14:1-5, 20) the wicked will




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 169 of 267
gather around the spiritual worldwide city in an attempt to destroy those who
are inside (Revelation 14:20; Daniel 11:45).

When the final loud cry message has been given, and the whole world has
decided to worship the Creator or the beast, then Michael will stand up and the
door of probation will close (Revelation 15:5-8; Daniel 12:1). Then the time of
trouble will ensue and the seven plagues will fall (Revelation 16:1-21).

During the period of the first four plagues, the world will gather as an
overwhelming flood against God’s remnant. The globe will have been flooded
by Babylon’s Euphrates river and only God’s remnant will remain with head
above water (Revelation 17:1-5; 16:12; Daniel 11:45)

However, during the last three plagues, God will deliver His people—everyone
whose name is in the book (Daniel 12:1; Revelation 17:8). At the same time,
Babylon will come to its end with none to help. The kings will hate her, the
merchants will stand afar off, the waters will dry up on her and her daughters
will turn against her (Revelation 17-18).

Thus, the three angels’ message are God’s final tidings that will enrage the beast
or king of the north against the remnant. Where do these tidings come from?
Revelation 18:1 describes a mighty angel who comes down from heaven (the
north) and gives a boost to the third angel’s message as it swells into a loud cry.
This angel will enlighten the globe with the glory of God denounce Babylon as
the haven of demons (Revelation 18:2, 3). This will not be any middle-eastern
small-scale fulfillment. It will be God’s final call for His people to escape from
spiritual Babylon and come for refuge to spiritual Jerusalem.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 170 of 267
Daniel 11:41 describes those who escape from the king of the north as spiritual
Edomites, Moabites and Ammonites. Obviously, there are two groups here—
those who are giving the loud cry message from Jerusalem calling the faithful
out of Babylon and those who come out and join those who are proclaiming the
message.

Notice that these tidings in Daniel 11:44 come from the east as does the sealing
angel in Revelation (Revelation 7:1, 2). The purpose of the message is to warn
the world not to receive the mark of the beast and to encourage them to receive
the seal of God. This sealing must take place before the close of probation and
the time of trouble because the purpose of the sealing is to protect God’s people
from the wrath that God will pour out during the time of trouble! Thus, the
sealing in Revelation 7:1, 2 is after 1798 and before the close of probation just
like it is in Daniel 11:44 (see also Ezekiel 9:1-6).

In Scripture it is always a revival among God’s people that brings about the
wrath of their enemies (Ezekiel 36-37 and 38-39; Joel 2:28-32 and Joel 3;
Zechariah 13 and 14; Acts 2:4-5 and chapters 4-5; Revelation 14:6-12 and
14:18-20).

What is the meaning of the word ‘trouble’? The Hebrew word bahal means ‘to
shake intensely, to be alarmed, agitated, frightened, terrified, panicked and
dismayed.’ The following texts use the word:

    Daniel 4:5: When God gave Nebuchadnezzar the dream of the tree, he was
       troubled.
    Isaiah 13:8: Babylon will be alarmed when God comes against her.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 171 of 267
    Daniel 4:19: Daniel was troubled when God revealed the meaning of
       Nebuchadnezzar’s dream to him.
    Daniel 5:6, 9, 10: When the handwriting on the wall appeared, the king
       was greatly troubled.
    Daniel 7:15, 28: The vision of the beasts troubled Daniel.
    2 Chronicles 32:18: Sennaquerib attempted to trouble Israel by his
       threats.
    2 Samuel 4:1: When the news of Abner’s death reached Israel, they were
       troubled
    Psalm 48:1-6: When the enemies of Israel saw Zion and Jerusalem, they
       were troubled and afraid and filled with pain like a woman in travail
    Psalm 83:17: When the wicked came against Jerusalem the psalmist said:
       ‘Let them be confounded and troubled forever: Yea, let them be put to
       shame and perish.’
    Job 21:6, Psalm 83:15; Isaiah 13:8 the word is translated ‘afraid’.
    Leviticus 26:16 translates the word ‘terror’

“. . .therefore he shall go out with great fury to destroy and annihilate many.”

The word ‘therefore’ explains that the tidings trouble the king of the north and
enrage him. He goes out to kill and destroy because he hates the tidings that are
coming from the north and the east. This wrath will lead to a little time of
trouble during which the faithful will receive the latter rain and proclaim the
loud cry (Matthew 24:9; Mark 13:9, 11). There will be martyrs during this short
time of trouble (Revelation 20:4; Matthew 24:9). The wrath of the king of the
north will gradually increase until a universal death decree is given against
God’s people (Daniel 11:45; Revelation 13:15)

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 172 of 267
Daniel 11:44 indicates that the wrath of the king of the north is not ordinary. It
is great fury which must be connected with Revelation 18:2, 3 where Babylon
gives the kings and the nations the wine of the wrath of her fornication which
leads her to attempt to kill God’s saints (Revelation 17:6; 18:24). Ellen White
explained why the wine of Babylon is ‘the wine of wrath’:

“The fallen denominational churches are Babylon. Babylon has been fostering
poisonous doctrines, the wine of error. This wine of error is composed of false
doctrines, such as the natural immortality of the soul, the eternal torment of the
wicked, the denial of the pre-existence of Christ prior to His birth in Bethlehem,
and advocating and exalting the first day of the week above God's holy and
sanctified day. These and kindred errors are presented to the world by the various
churches, and thus the Scriptures are fulfilled that say, 'For all nations have drunk
of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.' It is a wrath that is created by false
doctrines, and when kings and presidents drink this wine of the wrath of her
fornication, they are stirred with anger against those who will not come into
harmony with the false and satanic heresies that exalt the false sabbath and lead
men to trample underfoot God's memorial”. Ellen G. White, Testimonies to
Ministers and Gospel Workers, pp.61, 62

The book of Revelation reveals that the three angels’ message, intensified by
the fourth angel, angers Babylon. This anger is highlighted by the expression ‘to
utterly make away many.’ The best translation of this expression would be ‘to
annihilate’ or ‘blot out’ (the very expression that Ellen White used to describe
Satan’s designs for God’s people, Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 619).




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 173 of 267
The Hebrew word shamad, ‘make away’, appears in Deuteronomy 9:3 and 31:3
to describe one who is under anathema. The identical word appears in the book
of Esther to describe Haman’s hatred for the Jews (3:6, 13; 4:8; 8:11). This is
significant when we realize that the book of Esther is typological of the end time
when Haman wanted to obliterate, annihilate and blot out all the Jews!

Notice the following corroborating statements by Ellen White:

“I was pointed down to the time when the third angel's message was closing. The
power of God had rested upon His people; they had accomplished their work and
were prepared for the trying hour before them. They had received the latter rain,
or refreshing from the presence of the Lord, and the living testimony had been
revived. The last great warning had sounded everywhere, and it had stirred up
and enraged the inhabitants of the earth who would not receive the message.”
Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 279

“As the controversy extends into new fields and the minds of the people are called
to God's downtrodden law, Satan is astir. The power attending the message will
only madden those who oppose it. The clergy will put forth almost superhuman
efforts to shut away the light lest it should shine upon their flocks. By every means
at their command they will endeavor to suppress the discussion of these vital
questions.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 607

“Those who honor the law of God have been accused of bringing judgments upon
the world, and they will be regarded as the cause of the fearful convulsions of
nature and the strife and bloodshed among men that are filling the earth with
woe. The power attending the last warning has enraged the wicked; their anger
is kindled against all who have received the message, and Satan will excite to still


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 174 of 267
greater intensity the spirit of hatred and persecution.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 614, 615

Comments on Verse 45

Before we begin our analysis of each word in verse 45, let us summarize the
progression of events beginning with verse 40:

    The king of the south (atheism) wounds the king of the north (the
       papacy).
    The deadly wound of the papacy heals.
    The papacy gains the support of the state.
    The papacy invades the countries north of spiritual Israel.
    The papacy then invades the Glorious Land (Protestantism in the United
       States).
    The papacy then gains victories in the various countries of the world.
    The papacy’s victories shake many SDA’s out of the remnant church.
    The faithful remnant, after receiving the latter rain, proclaim the loud cry
       and sealing message.
    These ‘tidings’ enrage the papacy who influences the United States to give
       a death decree against them.
    The papacy and its allies gather in a strategic place to deliver the final
       deathblow.
    Michael stands up and closes the door of probation.
    A time of trouble ensues for God’s people.
    God delivers His people at the close of the time of trouble.
    The papacy and its allies come to their end with no one to help them,


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 175 of 267
    The special resurrection of those who pierced Jesus and those who died
       in the third angel’s message.
    The remnant shine as stars in the eternal kingdom.

Now let us analyze each phrase in verse 45 in order to determine five things:

    The meaning of the word ‘plant’.
    The meaning of the expression ‘tents of his palace’.
    Whether the rendition of the KJV ‘between the seas in the glorious holy
       mountain’ is correct.
    The geographical location that is in view in the text.
    The meaning of the phrase ‘he shall come to his end with none to help
       him’.

“And he shall plant the tents of his palace. . .’

The king of the north now moves from Egypt in the south to the north and east
where the disturbing tidings are coming from. Upon arrival at Sion/Jerusalem,
he plants the tents of his palace outside the city (in the winepress—Joel 3;
Revelation 14:19, 20; 19:11-15) to deliver a final deathblow that will silence
those who are proclaiming the message.

What does the word ‘plant’ mean? The word in the literal sense describes the
act of putting a plant in the ground. However, the Old Testament also uses the
word metaphorically to describe the act of planting a nation. For example, in
Exodus 15:17 God promised to ‘plant’ Israel in His holy mountain (see also,
Jeremiah 18:9; Jeremiah 24:6; Amos 9:15). It seems like the king of the north
intends to plant his global kingdom and he takes a strategic position to blot out
the lone remaining resistance to his aspirations.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 176 of 267
The word ‘tents’ is common in the Old Testament and frequently refers to God’s
sanctuary. However, the word ‘palace’ is a hapax legomenon, appearing only
here. Nevertheless, we can determine its meaning by its use in the secular
sources of the Persian Empire. Kings in the Old Testament had elaborate fixed
palaces in their capital city. However, in Daniel 11:45 the king of the north is on
the move. He has overwhelmed the world of the day from the Euphrates in the
north to the Nile in the south. Then he has moved north and east for a final
attack on Jerusalem. George McCready Price explained the meaning of the
expression ‘tents of his palace’:

“The peculiar phrase here used, ‘the tents of his palace’, means a large and
luxurious tent or collection of tents, such as would naturally be used as the field
headquarters of an Oriental king on a military campaign. A similar term was used
for the temporary headquarters of Cambyses when he invaded Egypt. The word
translated ‘palace’ is a Persian word, appeden, and meant a large hall or throne
room, such as most Oriental kings used to provide for themselves on their
expeditions. They carried their luxurious habits with them. The whole passage is
a military one and fits appropriately into the rest of the prophecy.” George
McCready Price, The Greatest of the Prophets, p. 317.

The Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges explains it this way:

“The word for ‘palace’ (appéden) occurs only here in the O.T.: it is a Persian word,
denoting properly a large hall or throne-room (see on Daniel 8:1). From Persian
it passed into Aramaic,—it is used in the Targum of Jeremiah 43:10 of the ‘royal
pavilion’ which Nebuchadnezzar was to erect in Egypt,—and occurs frequently in




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 177 of 267
Syriac in the sense of ‘palace.’ The present passage shews that it passed similarly
into late Hebrew.”

‘. . . between the seas and the glorious holy mountain. . .’
Bible versions translate the location of the king of the north’s tents differently.
The KJV translates, ‘between the seas in the glorious holy mountain.’ The NKJV
translates, ‘between the seas and the glorious holy mountain’ and the NIV has
it as ‘between the seas at the beautiful holy mountain.’ Some versions, such as
the NASB also render the word ‘sea’ as a plural, ‘seas’. Which is the best
translation?

We must address two critical questions:

    Should be singular word ‘sea’ be translated as plural?
    Does the king of the north set up his tents between the seas and the
       glorious holy mountain, in the holy mountain or at the holy mountain?

As we shall see, I believe that the NIV renders the text correctly.

In the course of our study, we will see that the glorious holy mountain is
Sion/Jerusalem, and the seas are the Mediterranean and the Dead Seas. All
other relevant eschatological passages reveal that the king of the north never
actually enters the holy mountain. That is to say, he does not come to his end
when he is in the holy mountain but rather at the holy mountain. The city is the
last bastion that challenges his desire for global control. If he could blot out the
remnant in the city, his triumph would be complete!

“Satan numbers the world as his subjects; he has gained control of the apostate
churches; but here is a little company that are resisting his supremacy. If he could


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 178 of 267
blot them from the earth, his triumph would be complete. As he influenced the
heathen nations to destroy Israel, so in the near future he will stir up the wicked
powers of earth to destroy the people of God.” Ellen G. White, Christian Service,
p. 157.

“The whole world is to be stirred with enmity against Seventh-day Adventists,
because they will not yield homage to the papacy, by honoring Sunday, the
institution of this antichristian power. It is the purpose of Satan to cause them to
be blotted from the earth, in order that his supremacy of the world may not
be disputed.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 37

The book of Revelation describes the gathering place of the king of the north as
Armageddon. Where is Armageddon located? Some have thought that it refers
to the valley of Megiddo west of Jerusalem and east of the Mediterranean
because many famous battles took place there. However, there is a better
explanation.

Armageddon is a compound word that comes from two Hebrew words: Har
(‘mountain’) and mo‘ed (‘congregation’). The king of the north and his cohorts
actually gather at the Mount of the Congregation. Biblical Hebrew has no
vowels. The consonants in Har-maggedon are identical to Har-mo‘ed.

Someone might wonder about the ending –on. This is simply a way of rendering
a Hebrew word into Greek. That is, a Greek ending is added to a Hebrew word.
An example of this is the Hebrew word abad (Obadiah 12). Revelation 9:11
renders the word abad as Abaddon. The ending –on is a Greek ending to a
Hebrew word.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 179 of 267
Let me give you a more contemporary example. In English, we use the word
park to describe the act of parking our vehicle. In Spanish, a person describes
the act of parking the car as ‘parkear’. The ending –ear provides a Spanish
ending to an English word.

In Daniel and Revelation God gathers His people to Mt. Zion where the temple
is and the spiritual temple on earth is the church. The book of Revelation refers
to a two-fold gathering. God’s people gather to Mt. Zion and the wicked gather
around it in the winepress in an attempt to destroy it. The Old Testament uses
the word mo‘ed almost exclusively to describe the congregation of the
tabernacle. It is a sanctuary term that refers to the congregation that meets at
the temple on Mt. Zion to worship the Lord. Many texts depict God’s people
taking refuge in Jerusalem/Zion in the midst of the final crisis. Notably, in each
crisis, the wicked never enter Jerusalem:

    After the three angels’ messages and the judgment divide the world into
       two groups, the righteous are in Jerusalem and the wicked are outside in
       the winepress (Revelation 14:19, 20)
    Joel 2:12-18 describes a great revival among God’s people who find
       refuge in Jerusalem and in Zion (Joel 2:32). Then, in chapter 3, the wicked
       gather in the winepress outside the city (Joel 3). Those who survive and
       God delivers are inside Jerusalem/Zion. Joel 2:32 uses the key words
       malat and palat, the identical words that appear in Daniel 11:41 and
       Daniel 12:1.
    Revelation 16:12-16 portrays the wicked gathered at the Mount of the
       Congregation (Zion) as a swirling flood ready to drown God’s faithful



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 180 of 267
       people but God will dry the waters up. What Lucifer intended in heaven
       now he attempts on earth.

       "How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you
       are cut down to the ground, you who weakened the nations! 13 For you
       have said in your heart: 'I will ascend into heaven; I will exalt my throne
       above the stars of God; I will also sit on the mount of the congregation on
       the farthest sides of the north; 14 I will ascend above the heights of the
       clouds, I will be like the Most High.' (Isaiah 14:12-14).

    The king of the north sets up the tents of his palace between the seas at
       the holy mountain of Zion and there comes to his end with none to help
       him (Daniel 11:45).
    After describing Mt. Zion as the city of the Great King (Psalm 48:1, 2), the
       psalm describes how God will deliver His people who find in Jerusalem
       their refuge (verses 2-14).
    Isaiah 4:2, 3 describes a remnant that survives and remains in Jerusalem
       after the final crisis.
    When Gog from the land of Magog comes against Jerusalem from the
       north (Ezekiel 38:6, 15, 39:2) God’s people will find refuge and God will
       deliver them in Jerusalem (Ezekiel 38:18-23).
    Revelation 14:1-5 portrays the remnant on Mt. Zion after they come forth
       victorious over the beast, his image and his mark (Revelation 13:11-18;
       15:2-4).
    Isaiah 24:20-23 describes millennial and post-millennial events. God will
       punish the wicked and deliver the righteous who are safe and secure in
       Jerusalem. Revelation 20:7-9 develops and expands these verses.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 181 of 267
    Revelation 17:14 portrays the kings of the earth gathered to destroy
       God’s people. However, the 144,000 are with the Lamb on Mt. Zion (see
       Revelation 14:1) and He will deliver them.
    King Senaquerib gathered his forces outside Jerusalem. God promised
       that the arrogant king would never enter the city (Isaiah 37:32-35).
    After the millennium, the wicked gather around the literal heavenly city
       (Revelation 20:7-10) intent on destroying the remnant who are within.
       God destroys the wicked outside Jerusalem.

God manifests His wrath because the wicked intend to slay his people that are
in a covenant relationship with Him (Deuteronomy 32:10; Zechariah 2:8; Psalm
17:8; Proverbs 7:2; Revelation 17:6; Revelation 18:20, 24; Ezekiel 38:16-21;
Revelation 6:9-11; Revelation 19:2; Ezekiel 38:8, 15-18; 39:2; Joel 3:19-21;
Obadiah 12-14; Nahum 2 and 3).

The gathering of the king of the north against Jerusalem cannot be literal. Why
not? The answer is simple. Neither Jerusalem nor Mt. Zion today are holy.
Notice the following quotations from the Spirit of Prophecy:

“The curse of God is upon Jerusalem and its surroundings, and the land is defiled
under the inhabitants thereof. There is no real foundation for feelings of awe in
looking upon the land of Palestine.” Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald,
February 25, 1896

“How many there are who feel that it would be a good thing to tread the soil of
old Jerusalem, and that their faith would be greatly strengthened by visiting the
scenes of the Savior's life and death! But old Jerusalem will never be a sacred



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 182 of 267
place until it is cleansed by the refining fire from heaven.” Ellen G. White, The
Review and Herald, June 9, 1896

“I also saw that Old Jerusalem never would be built up; and that Satan was
doing his utmost to lead the minds of the children of the Lord into these things
now, in the gathering time, to keep them from throwing their whole interest into
the present work of the Lord, and to cause them to neglect the necessary
preparation for the day of the Lord.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 75, 76

Ellen White described this climactic moment when the king of the north will
plant the tents of his palace between the seas at the Holy Mountain. She
understood that the place is global, Israel is global and includes all the wicked.
The wicked do not gather against the literal Jews in the literal Valley of
Jehoshaphat but rather in the entire world.

“When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor
the law of God, there will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for
their destruction. As the time appointed in the decree draws near, the people will
conspire to root out the hated sect. It will be determined to strike in one night a
decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the voice of dissent and reproof.

The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the
forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every
quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing
for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of
Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen.”

We cannot emphasize enough that there is an important prophetic principle
that should guide us when we speak about Jerusalem and Babylon. Before the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 183 of 267
millennium, the symbolic king of the north is the papacy, the visible leader who
is under the leadership of the invisible leader—Satan. The symbolic king of the
north and his spiritual armies gather outside spiritual, worldwide Jerusalem
where the spiritual Israel of God has found refuge (Revelation 14:18-20; 19:11-
15). Before the millennium, the kings, the merchants, the false prophet and the
multitudes withdraw their support from the symbolic king of the north and
turn against it.

After the millennium, the literal New Jerusalem descends from heaven and all
of God’s people from all ages enter the literal city. At this moment, the
counterfeit king of the north is Satan, visible and in person, who prepares his
literal armies to attack the literal city of Jerusalem where God’s literal people
are gathered (Zechariah 14:4, 5). Ezekiel 38, 39 universalizes Gog and Magog
who come, not only from the north, but rather from the four corners of the earth
(Revelation 20:8, 9). After the millennium the entire world will turn (dry up)
against Satan who has deceived them (see Ezekiel 28:2-10), Thus, before the
millennium Jerusalem is spiritual and worldwide and after the millennium it is
literal and literally where the Mount of Olives stood.

‘. . . yet he shall come to his end, and no one will help him.’




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 184 of 267
                     GOD’S PEOPLE DELIVERED
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr


When will the king of the north come to his end with none to help him? To this
point in the story, the false prophet (Revelation 13:11-18), the kings of the
earth (Revelation 17:1, 2; 18:2, 3; 16:14) the merchants of the earth (Revelation
18:6-24), and the multitudes (Revelation 17:1, 2, 15) have supported the
apostate king of the north. The entire apostate world has God’s remnant
cornered in spiritual Jerusalem (Revelation 14:20) to deliver a final deathblow.
At this point the waters of the spiritual Euphrates are at flood stage (Revelation
17:1-5, 15).

However, when the fifth plague falls, Babylon’s helpers will turn on the harlot
and leave her desolate. She will be a widow because her spiritual lovers will
forsake her. She will be both a widow and an orphan (Isaiah 47:9, 15). The
unfaithful religious shepherds will admit that they have deceived the populace
(Jeremiah 25:30-38). Thus, the king of the north coming to his end with none to
help him is parallel to the waters drying up on the harlot.

Ellen White described this climactic moment:

With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness of


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 185 of 267
the night, falls upon the earth. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the
throne of God, spans the heavens and seems to encircle each praying company.
The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their mocking cries die away.
They forget the objects of their murderous rage. With fearful forebodings they
gaze upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its
overpowering brightness.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 636

A few pages later, Ellen White described how the multitudes would forsake the
king of the north:

“The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having
led them to destruction; but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation
upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors have prophesied smooth things; they
have led their hearers to make void the law of God and to persecute those who
would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers confess before the world
their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury. "We are lost!" they
cry, "and you are the cause of our ruin;" and they turn upon the false shepherds.
The very ones that once admired them most will pronounce the most dreadful
curses upon them. The very hands that once crowned them with laurels will be
raised for their destruction. The swords which were to slay God's people are now
employed to destroy their enemies. Everywhere there is strife and bloodshed.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 655, 656

As stated before, after the millennium something similar will happen. This time
the saints will be in the literal city of Jerusalem. Satan will inspire the wicked to
surround the city for an attack. However, Satan’s supporters will turn against




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 186 of 267
him. He will be alone with none to help him. (Revelation 20:8, 9). Ellen White
described this climactic moment after the millennium:

“The time has come for a last desperate struggle against the King of heaven. He
rushes into the midst of his subjects and endeavors to inspire them with his own
fury and arouse them to instant battle. However, of all the countless millions
whom he has allured into rebellion, there are none now to acknowledge his
supremacy. His power is at an end. The wicked are filled with the same hatred
of God that inspires Satan; but they see that their case is hopeless, that they cannot
prevail against Jehovah. Their rage is kindled against Satan and those who
have been his agents in deception, and with the fury of demons they turn upon
them [see Ezekiel 28:1-10].” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 671, 672

Comments on Daniel 12:1

The first point we want to make is that the chapter division between Daniel 11
and 12 is in the wrong place. The chapter division should be at the end of Daniel
12:4 where the book is sealed. Regarding this, George M. Harton wrote:

“Most agree that the chapter division, which isolates 12:1-3 from the rest of chap.
11 with which it structurally belongs, is poorly placed.” George M. Harton, ‘An
interpretation of Daniel 11:36-45 Grace Theological Journal 4.2 (1983) 205-231.

"At that time. . .

The expression ‘at that time’ links Daniel 12:1 with verse 44 in the previous
chapter. That is to say, when the king of the north goes out to destroy and
annihilate many (11:44), Michael will stand up to defend them (12:1). The
expression ‘at that time’ cannot refer to events that occur after the king of the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 187 of 267
north comes to his end with none to help him (verse 45). Why would Michael
have to defend His people in the time of trouble if the king of the north has
already come to his end with none to help him?

“Michael. . .”

The name of Israel’s guardian angel is Michael. This specific name appears only
five times in the Bible—three times in the Old Testament and twice in the New.
However, Michael appears many other times in the Old Testament but with a
different name:

    ‘the Prince of the host’ (Daniel 8:11; Joshua 5:13-15)
    ‘the Angel of the Lord’ (Exodus 3:1-5)
    ‘the Prince of princes’ (Daniel 8:25)
    ‘the Angel of His presence’ (Isaiah 63:9)
    ‘the Great Prince’ (Daniel 12:1)
    Messiah the Prince (Daniel 9:25)
    Michael, your Prince (Daniel 10:21)

The etymology of the name Michael is important. It is composed of three
Hebrew Words:

    -mi: ‘who’
    -cha: ‘like’
      -el: ‘God’

Thus, the name means ‘who is like God’? The name is in itself a challenge! There
are three common denominators when Michael appears in Scripture by
name:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 188 of 267
    He is always in conflict with Satan.
    Michael always wins the conflict.
    When Michael wins, His people win with Him.

Let us examine each of the references to Michael by name and then some
references where He appears under a different name.

The first time the name Michael appears in the Bible is in Daniel 10:13. Let us
examine the historical context.

From 605 to 536 BC Israel was in Babylonian captivity but God promised that
at the end of this period He would deliver them so that they could return to
their land to rebuild the city, the wall and the temple (Jeremiah 25:11, 12).
Babylon had fallen three years earlier to the Medo-Persian armies in 539 BC
(Daniel 5). Right on time in the year 536 BC, Cyrus gave a decree for God’s
people to return to their land to begin the process of rebuilding the city, and the
temple (Ezra 1:1-4).

However, things were happening that were not in plain sight. There was a
struggle in the invisible world between Gabriel and the prince of Persia who
was attempting to influence the kings of Persia to interfere with the process
of rebuilding. Things got so testy that Michael had to come to Gabriel’s aid in
the struggle. Gabriel explained:

“But the prince of the kingdom of Persia [Satan] withstood me [Gabriel]
twenty-one days; and behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me,
for I had been left alone there with the kings of Persia.”

Ellen White gives a vivid description of the conflict between Gabriel and
Michael and the Prince of Persia:

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 189 of 267
“For three weeks Gabriel wrestled with the powers of darkness, seeking to
counteract the influences at work on the mind of Cyrus; and before the contest
closed, Christ Himself [Michael] came to Gabriel's aid: "The prince of the
kingdom of Persia withstood me one and twenty days," Gabriel declares; "but, lo,
Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me; and I remained there with the
kings of Persia." Daniel 10:13. All that heaven could do in behalf of the people of
God was done. The victory was finally gained; the forces of the enemy were held
in check all the days of Cyrus, and all the days of his son Cambyses, who reigned
about seven and a half years.” Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 571, 572

Albert Barnes explained the meaning of Daniel 10:13, 21:

“The angel saw that there were powerful influences against the interests of the
Hebrew people at work in the court of Persia; that it was necessary that they
should be counteracted; that unless this were done, fearful calamities would come
upon the Jewish people, and they would be subjected to great embarrassments in
their efforts to rebuild their city and temple, and he says that there was no one
whose aid could be permanently and certainly relied on but that of Michael.”

The second reference to Michael by name is in Daniel 10:20, 21:

“Then he [Gabriel] said [to Daniel]: ‘Do you know why I have come to you? And
now I must return to fight with the prince of Persia; and when I have gone forth,
indeed the prince of Greece will come. 21 But I will tell you what is noted in the
Scripture of Truth. (No one upholds me against these, except Michael your
prince.’”

When Michael joined Gabriel in the battle against the Prince of Persia, the battle
had only begun. They, together, must continue to fight the Prince of Persia


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 190 of 267
because the kings of Persia needed to give additional decrees to favor Israel.
Then the battle would continue with the kingdom of Greece. Daniel 10:13 and
21 tell us about the invisible war and history proves that Gabriel and Michael
won the battle and along with them the people. The Persian kings gave the
decrees and the Messiah came right on time.

The New Testament has three references to Michael. The first is in Jude, verse
9:

“Yet Michael the archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed
about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but
said, "The Lord rebuke you!"

Once again, Michael is contending with the devil. This is the only time that the
Bible refers to Michael explicitly as the Archangel which is significant because
when Jesus returns, He will give a shout ‘with the voice of an Archangel and the
trumpet of God’ (1 Thessalonians 4:16)

What was the reason for the battle in Jude 9? We do not have to guess because
the texts give us the reason. They contended over the body of Moses. It is absurd
to think that Jesus and Satan fight over dead corpses. The evidence indicates
that Jesus came to resurrect Moses and Satan contested His right to do so.

Deuteronomy 34:5, 6 brings to view two strange details about the death of
Moses. First, God buried him, the only person in the Bible that God buried.
Second, no one knew where his sepulcher was. This is strange because the Jews
marked the tombs of their heroes. Then later, on the Mt. of Transfiguration,
Moses ‘appeared in glorious splendor’ (Luke 9:31, NIV) or ‘in heavenly glory’
(NCV) to Jesus and spoke to Him. Obviously, Moses had resurrected!


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 191 of 267
The fourth reference to Michael is in Revelation 12:7-12:

“And war broke out in heaven: Michael and his angels fought with the dragon;
and the dragon and his angels fought, 8 but they did not prevail, nor was a place
found for them in heaven any longer. 9 So the great dragon was cast out, that
serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was
cast to the earth [John 12:31-33], and his angels were cast out with him. 10 Then
I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, "Now salvation, and strength, and the
kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ have come, for the accuser of
our brethren, who accused them [the brethren] before our God day and night,
has been cast down. 11 And they [the brethren] overcame him by the blood of
the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives to
the death. 12 Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe to the
inhabitants of the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to you, having
great wrath, because he knows that he has a short time."

We need to say several things about these verses. Once again, Michael is in
hand-to-hand combat with the devil and both of them have angels under their
command. Michael is the commander of faithful angelic hosts and Satan
commands the rebellious angels. Michael and His angels prevail over the devil
and his angels and cast them out of heaven.

This casting out took place in pre-history when Lucifer, the Son of the Morning
sought to overthrow God from His throne (Isaiah 14:12-14). Michael prevailed.
However, this passage also refers to the battle between Christ and Satan in the
Garden of Gethsemane and on the cross (John 12:31-33). Satan was doing his



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 192 of 267
utmost to discourage Christ from offering His life for sinners and Christ stood
firm in the midst of the tempest.

The first four references to Michael in the Bible describe events that have
already transpired. One lone reference has yet to be fulfilled, Daniel 12:1.
However, before we study this verse, let us consider some other passages in the
Bible that apply to Michael, though the specific name does not appear.

When Israel began the conquest of the Promised Land, the first city they came
to was Jericho. As Joshua was preparing to take the city, a warrior appeared to
him at the outskirts with drawn sword in hand. Let us pick up the story:

“And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted his eyes and
looked, and behold, a Man stood opposite him with His sword drawn in His hand.
And Joshua went to Him and said to Him, "Are You for us or for our adversaries?"
14 So He said, "No, but as Commander of the army of the LORD I have now come."


And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshiped, and said to Him, "What
does my Lord say to His servant?" 15 Then the Commander of the LORD 's army
said to Joshua, "Take your sandal off your foot, for the place where you stand is
holy." And Joshua did so.” (Joshua 5:13-15)

Who was this Commander of the army of the LORD? The clues are as subtle as
a tornado! The Commander was none other than Michael, who commands the
angelic hosts. We know that the Commander was none other than God for three
reasons:

    Joshua bowed before the Commander and worshiped.

    Joshua called the Commander ‘my Lord’


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 193 of 267
    The Commander instructed Joshua to remove the sandals from his feet
       because he was standing on holy ground.

The bottom line is that Israel conquered the fortified city of Jericho under the
leadership of Joshua, the visible leader of Israel, and the Commander of the
LORD’s hosts, the invisible leader.

Let us consider now a passage that refers to Michael as the Angel of the LORD.
Israel was in bondage in Egypt with no human possibility of escape. While
Moses was in Midian tending Jethro’s sheep, the Angel of the LORD appeared to
him in a bush. Here is the passage that tells the story:

“And the Angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of
a bush. So he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, but the bush
was not consumed. 3 Then Moses said, "I will now turn aside and see this great
sight, why the bush does not burn." 4 So when the LORD saw that he turned aside
to look, God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, "Moses, Moses!"
And he said, "Here I am." 5 Then He said, "Do not draw near this place. Take your
sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground." 6 Moreover,
He said, "I am the God of your father ó the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and
the God of Jacob." And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God.”
(Exodus 3:2-6)

Several details in this passage reveal the identity of the Angel of the Lord:

    Verse 2 tells us that the Angel of the LORD was in the bush but then verse
       4 tells us that God spoke to Moses from the midst of the bush.

    Verse 5 tells us that the Angel commanded Moses to remove his sandals
       because the ground where he was standing was holy.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 194 of 267
    Verse 6 tells us that the Angel identified Himself as the God of Abraham,
       Isaac and Jacob and that Moses hid his face because he ‘was afraid to look
       upon God’.

    Jesus referred to this episode in John 8:56-59 and identified Himself as
       the One who was in the burning bush.

Notably, verses 7, 8 tell us that the Angel of the LORD came down to deliver
Israel from bondage. Thus, the Angel of the LORD is the great deliverer of Israel
(see Exodus 23:20)

“And the LORD said: "I have surely seen the oppression of My people who are in
Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their
sorrows. 8 So I have come down to deliver [the Angel delivers] them out of the
hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up from that land to a good and large
land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites and
the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites.”
(Exodus 3:7, 8)

Michael also appears in the story of Jacob. Jacob was returning home after 20
years of exile. When he was on the way, he heard that his brother Esau, who
had sworn to hunt him down and kill him, was marching toward him with 400-
armed men intending to carry out his vow. In this time of trouble, Jacob went
by himself to the banks of the brook Jabbok and poured out his soul in prayer
to God, pleading for deliverance from the wrath of his brother:

“Then Jacob said, "O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, the
LORD who said to me, 'Return to your country and to your family, and I will deal
well with you': 10 I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all the truth


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 195 of 267
which You have shown Your servant; for I crossed over this Jordan with my staff,
and now I have become two companies. 11 Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my
brother, from the hand of Esau; for I fear him, lest he come and attack me and the
mother with the children.” (Genesis 32:9-11)

As he was praying, a mysterious being laid hold of him and Jacob began to
wrestle with Him (verses 24-30). Soon Jacob realized that he was struggling
against someone who had supernatural strength because He dislocated Jacob’s
hip with a mere touch. Jacob refused to let this being go unless He blessed him.
The being then changed Jacob’s name and blessed him. When Jacob asked the
being for his name, he did not answer. Hosea 12:4, 5 identifies the personage as
an Angel whose name is ‘the Lord’:

“Yes, he struggled with the Angel and prevailed; He wept, and sought favor from
Him. He found Him in Bethel, and there He spoke to us—5 That is, the Lord God of
hosts. The Lord is His memorable name.”

Jacob knew very well that this being was not an ordinary angel because he
named the place Peniel that means ‘face of God’. He explained the reason why
he gave the place this name: "For I have seen God face to face and my life is
preserved.” To make a long story short, the Angel, who is the Lord, delivered
Jacob from the wrath of his brother.

The next important passage that helps us identify Michael is in Daniel 3. We
shall find that once again the key word is ‘deliver’. The story is well known.
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, built an image and commanded all the very
important persons to bow down and worship it. When the music sounded, three
young Hebrews refused, so the king called them into his presence and gave
them another chance and challenged the ability of their God to deliver them:

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 196 of 267
“Now if you are ready at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre,
and psaltery, in symphony with all kinds of music, and you fall down and worship
the image which I have made, good! However, if you do not worship, you shall be
cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace and who is the god
who will deliver you from my hands?" (Daniel 3:15)

The Hebrew worthies did not hesitate to respond:

“Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego answered and said to the king, "O
Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. 17 If that is the
case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace,
and He will deliver us from your hand, O king. 18 But if not, let it be known to you,
O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which
you have set up.” (Daniel 3:16-18)

At this, the expression on the face of the king changed:

“Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury, and the expression on his face changed
toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego. He spoke and commanded that they
heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated.” (Daniel 3:19)

Ellen White described the expression on the king’s face:

“Satanic attributes made his countenance appear as the countenance of a
demon.” Ellen G. White, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 4, p.
1169

The king then cast the three young men into the furnace. Suddenly the king saw
four persons in the furnace and the fourth looked like the Son of God:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 197 of 267
“Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished; and he rose in haste and spoke,
saying to his counselors, "Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the
fire?" They answered and said to the king, "True, O king.” 25 "Look!" he answered,
"I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire; and they are not hurt, and
the form of the fourth is like the Son of God.” (Daniel 3:24, 25)

Many Bible versions state that the fourth looked like the son of the gods. The
translators wondered how a pagan king could know what the Son of God looked
like so they assume that the king thought that he was merely one of the sons of
the pagan gods. However, Ellen White explained:

“The Hebrew captives had told Nebuchadnezzar of Christ, the Redeemer that was
to come, and from the description thus given, the king recognized the form of the
fourth in the fiery furnace as the Son of God.” YI April 26, 1904

There is another very important detail in the story. Nebuchadnezzar recognized
that the Son of God that delivered the three young men was the Angel:

“Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abed-Nego, who sent His Angel and delivered His servants who trusted in Him,
and they have frustrated the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they
should not serve nor worship any god except their own God!” (Daniel 3:28)

At the conclusion of the story, the king extolled the God of the three young men
because He was able to deliver them from the furnace:

“Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, or language which speaks
anything amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego shall be




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 198 of 267
cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made an ash heap; because there is no other
God who can deliver like this." (Daniel 3:29)

Thus, the Son of God is the Angel and the Angel is God. The Angel that delivered
the young men was none less than Michael, another name for Jesus Christ!

Another well-known story in Daniel that illustrates Daniel 12:1 is Daniel 6. Once
again, we will find that the Angel ‘delivers’ Daniel from certain death.

Whereas Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 3 attempted to establish religion, Darius in
Daniel 6 attempted to forbid the free exercise of religion. As in Daniel 3, the
issues were obedience to God’s Law and worship. The enemies of Daniel could
find no dishonesty in his civil responsibilities so they decided to pursue his
obedience to His God’s Law:

“Then these men said, "We shall not find any charge against this Daniel unless we
find it against him concerning the law of his God." (Daniel 6:5)

Daniel’s enemies prepared a carefully devised scheme to deceive the king into
giving a decree that presumably would lead to Daniel’s death. The king, thinking
that the princes had the well-being of his kingdom in mind, readily signed the
decree:

“So these governors and satraps thronged before the king, and said thus to him:
"King Darius, live forever! 7 All the governors of the kingdom, the administrators
and satraps, the counselors and advisors, have consulted together to establish a
royal statute and to make a firm decree, that whoever petitions any god or man
for thirty days, except you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. 8 Now, O king,
establish the decree and sign the writing, so that it cannot be changed, according



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 199 of 267
to the law of the Medes and Persians, which does not alter." 9 Therefore King
Darius signed the written decree.” (Daniel 6:6-9)

Daniel could have been politically correct by closing his windows and practicing
his religion in private. However, he felt that although one’s religion is personal,
it is never private.

“Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went home. And in his
upper room, with his windows open toward Jerusalem, he knelt down on his
knees three times that day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as was
his custom since early days.” (Daniel 6:10)

When the king discovered that his advisors had deceived him, he did all in his
power to deliver Daniel but his advisors reminded him that the laws of the
Medes and Persians were unchangeable. Daniel’s plight seemed hopeless; it
appeared that he would be ‘cat food’:

“And the king, when he heard these words, was greatly displeased with himself,
and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored till the going down of
the sun to deliver him. 15 Then these men approached the king, and said to the
king, "Know, O king, that it is the law of the Medes and Persians that no decree or
statute which the king establishes may be changed." (Daniel 6:14, 15)

Therefore, the king gave the command to cast Daniel into the lion’s den.
However, just before the king’s servants cast him in, the king spoke to Daniel
and said to him, ‘I hope that your God whom you continually sever is able to
deliver you because I cannot.’




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 200 of 267
“So the king gave the command, and they brought Daniel and cast him into the
den of lions. However, the king spoke, saying to Daniel, "Your God, whom you
serve continually, He will deliver you." 17 Then a stone was brought and laid on
the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the
signets of his lords, that the purpose concerning Daniel might not be changed.”

Then the king returned to his palace where there was no music or feasting and
where he suffered insomnia all night:

“Now the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; and no musicians
were brought before him. Also his sleep went from him.” (Daniel 6:18)

The next morning the king rushed to the lion’s den to see if Daniel’s God had
been able to deliver him from the mouths of the lions:

Then the king arose very early in the morning and went in haste to the den of lions.
20 And when he came to the den, he cried out with a lamenting voice to Daniel. The


king spoke, saying to Daniel, "Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God,
whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions?" (Daniel
6:19, 20)

Daniel’s reply to the king’s question is vitally important. He said, ‘my God sent
His Angel and shut the lions’ mouths’. It is tempting to think that this Angel was
the same that delivered the three young Hebrews from the fiery furnace,
Michael:

“Then Daniel said to the king, "O king, live forever! 22 My God sent His angel and
shut the lions' mouths, so that they have not hurt me, because I was found
innocent before Him; and also, O king, I have done no wrong before you." 23


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 201 of 267
Now the king was exceedingly glad for him, and commanded that they should take
Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no injury
whatever was found on him, because he believed in his God.” (Daniel 6:21-23)

After Daniel deliverance, the king gave a new decree where he used the word
‘deliver’ twice:

“Then King Darius wrote: To all peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all
the earth: Peace be multiplied to you. 26 I make a decree that in every dominion of
my kingdom men must tremble and fear before the God of Daniel for He is the
living God, and steadfast forever; His kingdom is the one that shall not be
destroyed, and His dominion shall endure to the end. 27 He delivers and rescues,
and He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, who has delivered
Daniel from the power of the lions.” (Daniel 6:25-27)

Notably, the word deliver appears in four critical chapters of Daniel—Daniel 3,
6, 11 and 12:

    Daniel 3:15, 17 (2X), 28

    Daniel 6:14 (2X), 16, 20, 27 (2X)

    Daniel 11:41

    Daniel 12:1

Now we are ready to consider the last reference to the specific name ‘Michael’.
As I mentioned before, this is the only reference of the five that is still future.

Revelation 13:3, 4 describes the mortal wound that the papacy suffered in
1798. However, as we have seen, the papacy will recover from its mortal wound
and the whole world will marvel after and follow the beast:

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 202 of 267
“And I saw one of his heads as if it had been mortally wounded, and his deadly
wound was healed. And all the world marveled and followed the beast.”

As the beast is sweeping through the earth like an overwhelming flood, the
populace will worship it and utter a challenge:

"Who is like the beast? Who is able to make war with him?" (Revelation 13:4)

God will answer the challenge with Michael, whose name is ‘who is like God’.
(Daniel 12:1; see also Revelation 17:14). Thus, God will answer the defiant
question ‘who is like the beast and who is able to make war with him’, with
another question, ‘who is like God and who is able to make war with Him?’
Michael, the great warrior, will deliver His people.

"At that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over the
sons of your people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since
there was a nation, even to that time and at that time your people shall be
delivered, everyone who is found written in the book.”

Michael will not only deliver the living saints but he will also resurrect the
dead:

“And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to
everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt. Those who are wise
shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn many to
righteousness like the stars forever and ever.” (Daniel 12:2, 3)

“For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain
until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. 16 For
the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 203 of 267
archangel, and with the trumpet of God and the dead in Christ will rise first. 17
Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. 18
Therefore comfort one another with these words.” (1 Thessalonians 4:15-17)


“. . . shall stand up. . .”

In the book of Daniel, the expression ‘stand up’ (Hebrew hamad) always refers
to a king that begins to reign (Daniel 8:22, 23, 25; 11:2, 14, 20, 21). This means
that Michael is the last king to win a victory and take over the kingdom. Daniel
2 and particularly Daniel 7 refer to Christ setting up of a kingdom that will last
forever and will never be succeeded by another. This moment is parallel to the
cut out stone in Daniel 2, the Son of Man going to the Ancient of Days to receive
the kingdom in Daniel 7, and the cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8.

While Daniel 8 portrays the beginning of the process of investigative judgment,
Daniel 12:1 takes us to point of its conclusion. It is the same moment described
in Revelation 11:15-17, 15:5-8, and Revelation 22:11. While the door of
probation is open, Jesus wears his priestly robes (Hebrews 8:1, 2; 4:14-16;
Leviticus 8:1-9). However, when Jesus closes his ministration He will change
his priestly garments to those of a king and will return as King of kings and Lord
of lords (Revelation 19:11-16):

“Then I saw Jesus lay off His priestly attire and clothe Himself with His most kingly
robes.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 21

“The nations are now getting angry, but when our High Priest has finished His
work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of vengeance, and


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 204 of 267
then the seven last plagues will be poured out.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings,
p. 36

The Sabbath School Quarterly for the first quarter of 2020 explained the
meaning of the word ‘stand’:

“First, the verb ‘stand’ evokes the rise of kings to conquer and rule. The verb also
primarily connotes a military sense. It shows that Michael acts as a military
leader who protects His people and leads them in a special way during the last
stages of the great controversy. Second, the verb ‘stand’ also points to a judgment
setting. Michael ‘stands’ to act as an advocate in the heavenly tribunal. As the
Son of man, He comes before the Ancient of Days to represent God’s people
during the investigative judgment” (Daniel 7:9–14). Sabbath School Quarterly,
First Quarter, 2020, Lesson #13, “From Dust to Stars”, p. 101.

Although it is true that Jesus stands in the presence of the Father now
representing us now as Advocate, intercessor and mediator in the investigative
judgment, that is not the sense of the word ‘stand’ in Daniel 12:1. Although the
Hebrew word ‘stand’ by itself contains all the nuances described in this
quotation, the emphasis here is on Christ beginning to rule over His kingdom
because the investigative judgment is over and His kingdom is complete.

In the book of Daniel, whenever the word hamad is accompanied by the word
‘up’ it refers to ‘beginning to rule’ (see Daniel 8:22, 23, 25; 11:2, 3, 4, 7, 14, 20,
21). It is no coincidence that Ellen White begins the chapter on the time of
trouble in The Great Controversy by quoting Daniel 12:1 and then immediately
describes the close of probation and the seven last plagues (Ellen G. White, The
Great Controversy, pp. 613, 614).


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 205 of 267
Contrary to what many think, Jesus does not receive the kingdom at the second
coming. Daniel 7 explicitly teaches that He receives the kingdom from His
Father when the investigative judgment is over in heaven, not on earth:

“Every case had been decided for life or death. While Jesus had been ministering
in the sanctuary, the judgment had been going on for the righteous dead, and then
for the righteous living. Christ had received His kingdom, having made the
atonement for His people and blotted out their sins. The subjects of the kingdom
were made up. The marriage of the Lamb was consummated. And the kingdom,
and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, was given to Jesus and
the heirs of salvation, and Jesus was to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords.”
Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 280

In several of His parables, Jesus taught that He would receive the kingdom
before His second coming. We will mention only three. At the beginning of the
parable of the Minas Jesus said:

“"A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom
and to return.” (Luke 19:12)

In this parable, the nobleman represents Christ, the far country is heaven, and
the return is His second coming. Clearly, Jesus receives the kingdom in heaven
before He returns to earth to receive His people.

We find another example in the parable of the wedding garment in Matthew
22:1-14. After the gospel net has gathered all of those who have claimed Jesus
Christ as Savior, an investigation of the garments takes place. It is absurd to




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 206 of 267
think that God will examine the garments after all those who have claimed Jesus
are in heaven. Will God return people to earth after taking them to heaven?
The third example is in Luke 12:35, 36 where the wedding—the same as
receiving the kingdom—takes place in heaven before Jesus returns:

"Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; 36 and you yourselves be like
men who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding, that
when he comes and knocks they may open to him immediately. 37 Blessed are
those servants whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly,
I say to you that he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come
and serve them.”

We have three sequential events in this parable:

    The wedding in heaven.
    The return of Jesus to the earth from the wedding.
    The wedding reception when we will sit down to eat with Jesus in
       heaven.

“. . .who stands watch. . .”

The sense of Daniel 12:1 is that Jesus stands up in order to stand for His people.
(Esther 8:11; 9:2, 16 uses the word to describe Israel defending themselves
from those who wanted to destroy them) Although the word for ‘stand’ is the
same in both cases, the preposition it is with determines the meaning. What the
text is telling us that when Jesus takes over the kingdom and begins to rule, he
does so because his kingdom is complete. The judgment revealed the identity
of the subjects of the kingdom. However, during the time of trouble, the king of
the north wants to destroy the subjects of his kingdom. So Jesus now stands for

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 207 of 267
them, that is to say, defends them (Isaiah 3:13; Psalm 109:31). He stands to
defend His sheep, his bride, his vassal and his body. Isaiah 3:13 tells us that the
Lord stands up to litigate in favor of Israel (see Ezekiel 13:5).

Various versions translate the word ‘stand with ‘stand watch’ or ‘guards’ or
‘protects’. At this point, the intercessor has become the defender of the subjects
of His kingdom. Although God’s people will have to stand without a mediator,
they will not stand without a defender. Daniel 8:4, 7 uses ‘stand’ in a military
sense. When an army cannot ‘stand’, it means defeat.

“. . . over the sons of your people. . .”

What principle gives us the right to say that ‘thy people’ refers to Daniel’s literal
people in Daniel 9:15, 16, 24 and 10:14 while it refers to spiritual Israel in
Daniel 12:1? What rule of interpretation allows us to say that the ‘holy people’
in Daniel 9:24 (see Hosea 11:1, Ezekiel 37:18 21, 25, 16; Ezekiel 43:7; Daniel
1:6; 6:13 (vital verse); Joel 2:6, 16; Psalm 105:6; Psalm 148:14; Psalm 149:2)
refers to literal Israelites while the identical expression in Daniel 12:7 refers to
spiritual Israelites? Furthermore, why is the ‘holy mountain’ in Daniel 9:16, 20
a reference to literal mount Zion in the middle east while in Daniel 11:45 the
same expression applies to a spiritual, worldwide Mt. Zion?

We find the answer to these questions by understanding that while the Hebrew
theocracy is in place, we must understand the word ‘Israel’ locally and literally.
However, when the theocracy comes to an end in the year 34 AD we must
understand the word ‘Israel’ in a spiritual and global sense (see John 4:23, 24;
2 Corinthians 1:20; Galatians 3:16, 26-29; Romans 2:28, 29; Romans 9:6-8).
Ezekiel 37:21-28 that applied to literal Israel will find its final fulfillment with


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 208 of 267
all of the redeemed in Revelation 21:3, 22-27 and 22:3-5. In Joel 3:6, 16 the
expressions “children of Judah’, ‘children of Israel’, ‘children of Jerusalem’ are
synonymous. God also calls His people the ‘children of Jacob’ (Psalm 105:6),
‘children of Zion’ (Psalm 149:2) and ‘children of Benjamin’ (Jeremiah 6:1).

God makes the new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah.
(Hebrews 8:8). If we read this verse literally, it applies only to literal Israel and
Judah. However, no Christian today would say that the new covenant applies
only to the literal Jews. Clearly, the words ‘Judah’ and ‘Israel’ apply spiritually
to the church. Jesus Himself referred to His sacrifice as the blood of the new
covenant that He shed for the disciples (Matthew 26:28).

This is how it works out. ‘Thy people’ (Daniel 9:15, 16, 20, 24; 10:14) changes
from the literal to the spiritual Israel in Daniel 12:1. ‘Holy people’ in Daniel 8:24
changes from literal to spiritual Israel in Daniel 12:7. ‘Holy Mountain’ in Daniel
9:16, 20 changes from the literal Israel to the spiritual Israel (the church) in
Daniel 11:45. This is the crucial interpretative principle. Ellen White applies
Zechariah 12:8 to the church in 5T 81. She also uses Isaiah 4:3, 4 to refer to the
church in Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pp. 475, 476;
Ellen G. White, Prophet and Kings, p. 592; Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, p. 485.

‘. . . and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation,
even to that time. . .”

The key verse to understand the time of trouble in Daniel 12:1 is in Genesis
32:7. In this chapter, Jacob was deeply troubled because he heard that his
brother Esau was coming to kill him and his family. Jacob cried out to God for


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 209 of 267
deliverance from the wrath of his brother (Genesis 32:11). He then struggled
with the Angel of the Covenant—Jesus Christ—and prevailed (see Hosea 12:4,
5). The Angel then gave Jacob a new name that reflected his new character.

The context clearly indicates that this Angel was none less than Jesus Christ, the
same person as Michael the Archangel who appears in Daniel 12:1. Jacob’s
experience is expanded in Jeremiah 30:7 and 2Kings 19:3 (see also Psalm 9:9;
37:38, 39; 46:1; 50:15, 16; 91:15; 138:7; Isaiah 33:2; 37:2; Zephaniah 1:15;
Nahum 1:9; Habakkuk 3:16). Matthew 24:21 describes the same time of trouble
as Daniel 12:1.

The rage of the king of the north comes because of the tidings from the north
and from the east. Likewise, the great tribulation in Matthew 24:21 comes after
the abomination of desolation. The book of Revelation describes the wrath of
spiritual Babylon because the remnant refuses the wine of her abominations.
After the time of trouble in Daniel 12:1, comes the deliverance of God’s people
and the special resurrection. In Matthew 24, after the great tribulation Jesus
gathers His people from the four winds of heaven.

Jeremiah 30:4-10 also describes this ‘time of Jacob’s trouble’ as God was about
to deliver Judah from Babylonian captivity:

“Now these are the words that the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah. ‘For
thus says the Lord: 'We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
6 Ask now, and see, whether a man is ever in labor with child? So why do I see


every man with his hands on his loins like a woman in labor, and all faces turned
pale? 7 Alas! For that day is great, so that none is like it; and it is the time of
Jacob's trouble, but he shall be saved out of it. 8 'For it shall come to pass in that


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 210 of 267
day,' says the Lord of hosts, 'That I will break his yoke from your neck, and will
burst your bonds; foreigners shall no more enslave them. 9 But they shall serve the
Lord their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. 10 'Therefore
do not fear, O My servant Jacob,' says the Lord, 'nor be dismayed, O Israel; for
behold, I will save you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity.
Jacob shall return, have rest and be quiet, and no one shall make him afraid.”

This final time of trouble is also foreshadowed by King Senaquerib’s invasion
of the Holy Land in the year 701 BC:

“For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and those who escape [palat] from
Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. 33 "Therefore thus says the
Lord concerning the king of Assyria: 'He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an
arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor build a siege mound against it. 34
By the way that he came, by the same shall he return; and he shall not come into
this city,' says the Lord. 35 'For I will defend this city, to save it for My own sake
and for My servant David's sake.'" (Isaiah 37:32-35)

“. . . and at that time your people shall be delivered. . .

At this point, we must consider more extensively the prophecy of Joel 2 and 3
because it has a direct connection with Daniel 11:45-12:1. As we have noted
before, Daniel 11 employs the words malat (verse 41) and palat (verse 42) to
describe those who escape or are delivered from the invasion of the king of the
north. Significantly, Joel 2:32 uses these two words synonymously. We shall
find that Revelation 14:14-20 universalizes the prophecy of Joel 2 and 3.
Revelation 14 portrays all of God’s faithful people who have taken refuge in
spiritual Jerusalem. Here is Joel 2:32 that introduces the scene of chapter 3:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 211 of 267
‘And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall
be delivered [malat, translated in Daniel 11:41 as ‘escape’]: for in mount Zion
and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance [palat, translated in Daniel 11:42 as
‘escape’], as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whom the LORD shall call
[same word in Revelation 17:14: Those who are with Jesus are called].’ (Joel
2:32).

Ellen White links Joel 2:32 and chapter 3 with Daniel 11 by using the words
‘escape’, ‘deliver’ and ‘heathen’ (KJV: Joel 2:17, 19; 3:11, 12) and the phrase
‘written in the book’ from Daniel 12:1:

“To outward appearance, there was no possibility of their escape [Daniel 11:41].
The wicked had already begun to triumph, crying out, "Why doesn't your God
deliver [Joel 2:32; Daniel 12:1] you out of our hands? Why don't you go up and
save your lives?" However, the saints heeded them not. Like Jacob, they were
wrestling with God. The angels longed to deliver [Joel 2:32; Daniel 12:1] them
but they must wait a little longer; the people of God must drink of the cup and be
baptized with the baptism. The angels, faithful to their trust, continued their
watch. God would not suffer His name to be reproached among the heathen [Joel
2:17, 19; 3:11, 12, KJV]. The time had nearly come when He was to manifest His
mighty power and gloriously deliver [Joel 2:32; Daniel 12:1] His saints. For His
name's glory He would deliver [Joel 2:32; Daniel 12:] 1every one of those who
had patiently waited for Him and whose names were written in the book [Daniel
12:1].” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pp. 283, 284

“. . . everyone who is found written in the book.”



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 212 of 267
This phrase proves that before the close of probation and the second coming
there was an examination of the books to determine whom God would deliver.
Only those whose names are retained in the book of life will be delivered (see
Philippians 4:3; Isaiah 4:3; Exodus 32:32, 33; Revelation 3:5; Psalm 69:28;
Revelation 20:12, 15; 22:19).

When the time of trouble begins after probation closes, the names of the living
saints are already in the book. Some who claimed Jesus but were not genuine
believers have their names blotted out from the book. Revelation 3:5 indicates
that God can delete names from the book of life. The reason why a separation
needs to be made is because in the church there are good and bad fish, wise and
foolish virgins, wheat and tares, those who have a mere form of godliness and
those who say Lord, Lord but are workers of lawlessness.

Comments on Daniel 12:2

“And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to
everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt.”

The text tells us ‘many’ (Hebrew: rab, see Daniel 12:3, 4, 10; 11:44) of those
who sleep in the dust of the earth will be raised. That is to say, not all who are
dead will resurrect when God delivers the living righteous from the death
decree. The text describes a partial resurrection of some righteous and some
wicked people.

It is important to realize that Daniel 12:1, 2 refers to two groups. The first are
those who alive during the time of trouble and need to be delivered from the
death decree by Jesus. After all, if they were not alive, why would Michael have


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 213 of 267
to stand guard over them and deliver them? The group of the living saints are
the 144,000 that God sealed before He released the four winds of strife. The
second group are those who sleep in the dust of the earth. God will resurrect
them at the precise moment when He delivers the sealed ones at the end of the
great tribulation.

We must link the expression ‘sleep in the dust of the earth’ with Daniel 11:32,
33. This is the moment when those who died will shine as the stars. At this time,
God will answer the prayers of both groups of martyrs who are crying out for
vengeance in the fifth seal (Revelation 6:9-11; 15:2-4; 19:1, 2).

The resurrection of Daniel 12:2 is not the general resurrection of the righteous
and the wicked. The general resurrection of the righteous takes place when the
second coming of Jesus concludes and the general resurrection of the wicked
occurs after the millennium. Let us consider this ‘special resurrection’.

Daniel 12:2 describes a special resurrection of those who pierced Jesus and
those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message. When Jesus stood
before Caiaphas, the wily High priest asked Him if He was the Messiah, Jesus
replied by predicting that Caiaphas would be an eyewitness of His second
coming on the clouds of heaven. However, in order for this to be possible,
Caiaphas must resurrect from the dead:

“It is as you said. Nevertheless, I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man
sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven."
(Matthew 26:64)

Revelation 1:7 clearly predicts that those who pierced Jesus will be
eyewitnesses to His second coming:

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 214 of 267
“Behold, He is coming with clouds, and every eye will see Him, even they who
pierced Him and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of Him. Even so,
Amen.” (Revelation 1:7; see also Matthew 24:30)

Caiaphas and those who pierced Jesus will die when Jesus comes but will once
again come to life after the millennium and say ‘blessed is He who comes in the
name of the LORD’:

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are
sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen gathers
her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing! 38 See! Your house is left to
you desolate; 39 for I say to you, you shall see Me no more till you say, 'Blessed is
He who comes in the name of the LORD!' (Matthew 23:37, 38)

Ellen White wrote:

“At the close of the thousand years, Christ again returns to the earth. Every eye
in that vast multitude is turned to behold the glory of the Son of God. With one
voice, the wicked hosts exclaim: ‘Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the
Lord!’” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 662.

This special resurrection will also include those who died in the faith of the
third angel’s message:

“Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, ‘write: Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord from now on.’ ‘Yes,’ says the Spirit, ‘that they may rest from their
labors, and their works follow them.’ (Revelation 14:13)

In context, this verse comes immediately after the third angel’s message
(Revelation 14:12) and before the second coming of Jesus (Revelation 14:14).

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 215 of 267
The word ‘blessed’ is important. The voice does not pronounce the blessing
upon all those who have died in the Lord since sin came into the world. The
voice pronounces the blessing on a special group—those who died in the Lord
after the proclamation of the third angel’s message began. The expression
‘from now on’ makes this clear.

“The third angel’s message began when the most holy place opened in 1844.
As the ministration of Jesus closed in the holy place, and He passed into the holiest,
and stood before the ark containing the law of God, He sent another mighty angel
with a third message to the world. . . The third angel closes his message thus:
‘Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of
God, and the faith of Jesus." As he repeated these words, he pointed to the heavenly
sanctuary. The minds of all who embrace this message are directed to the most
holy place, where Jesus stands before the ark, making His final intercession for all
those for whom mercy still lingers and for those who have ignorantly broken the
law of God.” Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 254

No faithful Seventh-day Adventists who died before the second coming will
resurrect in the general resurrection—all will come forth in the special
resurrection because all of them died after the proclamation of the third angel’s
message began!

The text refers to death as a ‘rest’ from labor. Elsewhere, the Bible uses the rest
in sleep as a euphemism for death.

The New Testament uses the word ‘labor’ most frequently to refer to
missionary outreach (Revelation 2:2; Hebrews 6:10; 2 Corinthians 6:4, 5; 11:23,
27; 1 Corinthians 15:58; 1 Thessalonians 1:3). In other words, those who rest


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 216 of 267
in the grave worked tirelessly in preaching the three angels’ messages while
they lived.

The word ‘works’ describes the exemplary life of those who labored for the
Lord during their lifetime. The testimony of their lives continued to influence
succeeding generations leading to conversions for the Lord. For example,
Hebrews 11:4 tells us that even after suffering a martyr’ death, the testimony
of Abel continues to speak:

“By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which
he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts; and through
it he being dead still speaks.”

We must link Revelation 14:13 with Daniel 12:12. Both of these verses begin
with the word ‘blessed’:

Daniel 12:12

“Blessed is he who waits, and comes to the one thousand three hundred and
thirty-five days.”

Heidi Heiks, in his well-documented book, AD 1798-1843 Source Book, has
shown that the 1335 days began in 508 and ended in 1843. Thus, there is a
special blessing for those who live after 1843.

Some well-meaning Adventists project the 1335 days into the future, teaching
that they refer to literal time. They base this, partially at least, on a
misunderstood statement by Ellen White:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 217 of 267
“We told him [Brother Hewitt] of some of his errors in the past, [we told him] that
the 1335 days were ended and numerous errors of his.” Ellen G. White, Manuscript
Releases, volume 16, p. 208

This is an ambiguous statement. Undoubtedly, Ellen White was saying that
Brother Hewitt was teaching that the 1335 days had not ended when they
already had. This was one of his numerous errors. The time-periods of Daniel
12 cannot reach beyond 1844 because Revelation 10:6 tells us that prophetic
time ended in 1844. Ellen White warned against time setting:

“There will always be false and fanatical movements made by persons in the
church who claim to be led of God--those who will run before they are sent and
will give day and date for the occurrence of unfulfilled prophecy. The enemy
is pleased to have them do this, for their successive failures and leading into false
lines cause confusion and unbelief.” Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume 2,
p. 84

“Our position has been one of waiting and watching, with no time-proclamation
to intervene between the close of the prophetic periods in 1844 and the time of
our Lord's coming.” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 10, p. 270

“The people will not have another message upon definite time. After this
period of time [Revelation 10:4-6], reaching from 1842 to 1844, there can be no
definite tracing of the prophetic time. The longest reckoning reaches to the
autumn of 1844.” Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, p. 971

We may legitimately ask why there is not just one general resurrection for all
the saints of all ages. Here is the answer: Let us suppose that Martin Luther
resurrected in this special resurrection of those who died in the faith of the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 218 of 267
third angel’s message. Would he be able to understand what was happening at
that moment? Would he understand the issues? Would he understand the
sanctuary, the state of the dead, the Sabbath, the dragon, the beast, the false
prophet, the image of the beast and the mark of the beast in historical context?
Obviously not. However, Seventh-day Adventists who understood and
preached the third angel’s message will stand with the 144,000 and
comprehend exactly what is going on at that moment.

Here is a summary of the special and general resurrections:

    General resurrection of the righteous: Those who died in Christ before
       1844 resurrect when the second coming of Jesus concludes.

    General resurrection of the wicked: Unbelievers from all ages
       resurrect after the millennium.

    Special resurrection of the righteous: Those who died in the faith of
       the third angel resurrect when Jesus begins His second coming.

    Special resurrection of the wicked: Those who pierced Jesus and the
       worst enemies of the truth resurrect as Jesus begins His second coming.

    Living Righteous: The 144,000

Ellen White and the Timing of the Special Resurrection

Let us take a look at the sequence of events between the standing up of Michael
and the conclusion of the second coming:




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 219 of 267
    The Great Controversy, p. 613: Jesus stands up (Daniel 12:1) and begins
       to reign (Daniel 11:2, 3, 4 on the meaning of “stand up”). He lays off His
       priestly robes (which He wears in Hebrews) and puts on His kingly
       robes (spoken of in Revelation 19:11ff).

    The Great Controversy, pp. 613-634: The time of trouble (Daniel 12:1).

    The Great Controversy, p. 635: The death decree about to be executed
       (Daniel 11:44; Revelation 13:15).

    The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 636: God’s voice delivers the living
       saints, the 144,000 (Daniel 12:1). The fact that they are written in the
       book indicates that they went successfully through a pre-advent
       judgment (see, Revelation 22:11, 12).

    The Great Controversy, p. 637: The special resurrection (Daniel 12:2).

    The Great Controversy, p. 640: Jesus announces the day and hour of His
       coming.

    The Great Controversy, pp. 640, 641: The second coming of Jesus
       concludes as Jesus arrives above the earth (Matthew 24:30).

    The Great Controversy, p. 644: The general resurrection of the
       righteous (Matthew 24:31).

Comments on Daniel 12:3

“Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those
who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever.”


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 220 of 267
The expression forever and ever reminds us of Christ’s kingdom in Daniel 2 and
7. This verse now completes the vision that Gabriel did not fully explain in
Daniel 8.

Comments on Daniel 12:4

Daniel 12:4 concludes the ‘second book’ of Daniel 8-12 and Daniel then places
the seal on the book. In the time of the end, the Angel of Revelation 10 removes
the seal. Daniel 12:1-4 is really the conclusion of chapter 11. We will not say
much about the little book because I have covered this fully in my study notes
on the Seven Trumpets.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 221 of 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 222 of 267
            A FRESH LOOK AT DANIEL 11:40-45
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr


Introduction

Daniel 11:40-45 has always been a subject of lively discussion among Adventist
theologians. Until recently most agreed that, the king of the north represents
the papacy and the king of the south represents atheism or secularism.
However, now a new view has appeared on the horizon that sees radical Islam
as playing a significant role in the fulfillment of this prophecy. Those who have
embraced this view have concluded that the events of 9/11 and the war against
Al-Qaeda are so significant that they must be contemplated somewhere in Bible
prophecy. This has sparked a new interest in the study of the fifth and sixth
trumpets in conjunction with Daniel 11:40-45.

Usually Ellen White has provided valuable guidance in the interpretation of
difficult prophetic passages. However, unlike other passages in the book of
Daniel Ellen White seems to be silent on the meaning of most of chapter eleven,
particularly verses 40-45. Nowhere, to my knowledge does she ever quote
these verses or even echo the terminology contained in them.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 223 of 267
This seeming silence on verses 40-45 has led some to conclude that Ellen White
had nothing to say about them. We therefore ask, did Ellen White have anything
to say about the meaning of these verses or does her apparent silence indicate
that their meaning would remain a mystery until long after her death? In this
article, we will seek to answer this question.

Ellen White’s Use of Daniel 11

To my knowledge, there are only three primary Ellen G. White references to
Daniel 11 (except for one in A Word to the Little Flock Scattered Abroad).

One of these references is indirect, one is general in nature and another is
quite specific. Only in the specific reference does Ellen White actually quote
any verses from the chapter (verses 30-36). Unfortunately, as stated before, she
never quotes nor does she even allude to the language of verses 40-45 so it
would seem well-nigh impossible to know if or how Ellen White understood
them.

Ellen White’s Three Quotations

The first quotation is indirect because she does not specifically mention Daniel
11 but only alludes to it (all bold type is mine unless specified). In 1896, she
wrote:

“The light that Daniel received from God was given especially for these last days.
The visions he saw by the banks of the Ulai [Daniel 8:2] and the Hiddekel [Daniel
10:4 and chapter 11], the great rivers of Shinar, are now in process of
fulfillment, and all the events foretold will soon come to pass.” Ellen G. White,
Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 112



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 224 of 267
The second quotation is general and she wrote it in 1909:

“The world is stirred with the spirit of war. The prophecy of the eleventh chapter
of Daniel has nearly reached its complete fulfillment. Soon the scenes of
trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take place.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies
for the Church, volume 9, p. 14

She wrote the third quotation in 1904 and it is the only one where Ellen
White actually quotes verses from Daniel 11:

“We have no time to lose. Troublous times are before us. The world is stirred with
the spirit of war. Soon the scenes of trouble spoken of in the prophecies will take
place. The prophecy in the eleventh of Daniel has nearly reached its complete
fulfillment. Much of the history that has taken place in fulfillment of this
prophecy will be repeated. In the thirtieth verse a power is spoken of that "shall
be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy covenant: so shall
he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that forsake the holy
covenant." [she quotes verses 30-36] Scenes similar to those described in
these words will take place.” Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 13, p.
394 (Letter 103, 1904)

Analysis of Ellen White’s References to Daniel 11

We must now examine more closely the three quotations above:

The quotation from Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 112
(1896) provides two key items of information:

    First, the prophecies of Daniel eight and eleven run concurrently and
       are parallel. The prophecy by the Ulai was the one given in chapter 8



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 225 of 267
       (Daniel 8:2) and the one by the Hiddekel was the one given in chapters
       10 and 11 (Daniel 10:4).
    Second, both of these prophecies were in the process of fulfillment
       when Ellen White wrote in 1896. Unfortunately, Ellen White does not
       specify how much of the chapter had already reached its fulfillment
       when she wrote the statement. She merely stated that these prophecies
       were in the process of fulfillment.

The quotation in Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, p. 14, adds some very
valuable information: When Ellen White wrote this testimony in 1909 she
stated that the prophecy of Daniel 11 had nearly reached its complete
fulfillment. Thus, we can be certain that in 1909 the process of fulfillment of
Daniel 11 was in the last few verses of the chapter.

The quotation from Manuscript Releases, volume 13, p. 394 (1904) contains
some significant information that we do not find in the other two.

In this statement, Ellen White explains that much of the history that fulfilled
this chapter will repeat. The critical question then is this, to which history was
she referring? Fortunately, it is not necessary for us to guess because she
immediately quotes verses 30-36. Then, right after quoting these verses, she
again repeats the thought that much of the history that fulfilled this prophecy
will occur once more in the future:

“Scenes similar to those described in these words will take place.”

Clearly, Ellen White understood that verses 30-36 (as well as verses 37-39 that
she does not quote) had already reached their fulfillment before she wrote. If
verses 30-39 had reached their fulfillment in the past, then the future repetition


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 226 of 267
of much of the history must occur in verses 40-45. Thus, verses 30-39 describe
past events from the time that she wrote while verses 40-45 describe future
events.

It is important to realize that Ellen White was not saying that these verses
would have two fulfillments, one past and the other future. What she is saying
is that much of the history that fulfilled these verses in the past will occur in
similar manner in the future. Stated another way, it is not the prophecy in
verses 30-39 that will be fulfilled once again but rather much of the history
that fulfilled the prophecy in the past will be repeated in similar fashion in the
future.

A Repetition of History

Now we must ask why the historical scenes of the past will repeat once again in
similar fashion in the future. The answer is not hard to find. The arrogant and
persecuting power that verses 30-39 describe is the Roman Catholic papacy
as it behaved during its 1260-year career. During this period, it joined church
and state, ran loose and used the sword of the state to persecute dissenters.

As is well known, at the end of the 1260 years the papacy received a deadly
wound when the state turned against it at the conclusion of the French
Revolution. However, this was not the end of the papacy’s career. Prophecy
predicts that after a period of convalescence the deadly wound would be
healed (Revelation 13:3) when the United States returns the sword of civil
power into the papacy’s hand. Then the papacy will behave once more as it did
in the past. Thus, the history of past papal oppression will transpire in the
future because the papacy will rise once again to power.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 227 of 267
In summary: Ellen White believed that Daniel 11:30-36 (also verses 37-39
although she does not quote them) found its fulfillment in the past. She also
believed that much of the history that these verses describe would transpire
once more in similar fashion. If verses 30-39 had already found their
fulfillment when Ellen White wrote, then we must find the future repetition of
the history of these verses in verses 40-45.

Notice the following three quotations on the past and future power of the
papacy:

“The influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is
still far from being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power.
"I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was
healed: and all the world wondered after the beast" Revelation 13:3. Ellen G.
White, The Great Controversy, p. 579

“When our nation [the United States] shall so abjure the principles of its
government as to enact a Sunday law, Protestantism will in this act join hands
with popery; it will be nothing else that giving life [it must have had a deadly
wound] to the tyranny which has long been eagerly watching its opportunity to
spring again [the active despotism died only to live again] into active [for a
period the tyranny was inactive] despotism.” Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the
Church, volume 5, p. 712

“When the land which the Lord provided as an asylum for his people, that they
might worship him according to the dictates of their own consciences, the land
over which for long years the shield of Omnipotence has been spread, the land
which God has favored by making it the depository of the pure religion of Christ—
when that land shall, through its legislators, abjure the principles of

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 228 of 267
Protestantism, and give countenance to Romish apostasy in tampering with God's
law—it is then that the final work of the man of sin will be revealed. Protestants
will throw their whole influence and strength on the side of the Papacy; by a
national act enforcing the false Sabbath, they will give life and vigor [the
corrupt faith of Rome must have been dead for a period] to the corrupt faith
of Rome, reviving [her tyranny and oppression of conscience were dead for
a while] her tyranny and oppression of conscience. Then it will be time for God to
work in mighty power for the vindication of his truth.” Ellen G. White, The Signs
of the Times, June 12, 1893

In the light of the foregoing analysis, we can safely conclude that Daniel 11:30-
39 describes the past career of the papacy and Daniel 11:40-45 describes its
future career.

Ellen White’s Perspective of Daniel 12:1, 2

However, does Ellen White have anything to say about the events that
Revelation verses 40-45 describe? Where would we even begin to look if she
never quotes these verses or even alludes to their terminology? I believe that
we find the key that will unlock her understanding of these verses in her
understanding of Daniel 12:1. Although Ellen White never quoted or even
alluded to the language of Daniel 11:40-45 in the book The Great Controversy,
she did quote the next verse, Daniel 12:1. I believe that the place where she
quotes Daniel 12:1 contains the key that unlocks her understanding of the
immediately preceding verses.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 229 of 267
Working Deductively

Because Ellen White did not quote or even allude to the terminology of
Revelation verses 40-45 in The Great Controversy, we cannot work from verse
40 forwards. We do not know where to find her comments on verse 40. What
we must do then is work deductively from Daniel 12:1, 2 backwards.

Let us consider Daniel 12 verses one and two:

"At that time [1] Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over
the sons of your people; and there shall be a [2] time of trouble, such as never
was since there was a nation, even to that time. And at that time your people [3]
shall be delivered, everyone who is found written in the book. And many of those
who sleep in the dust of the earth [4] shall awake, some to everlasting life, some
to shame and everlasting contempt.”

The bold type indicates that there are four sequential events in Daniel 12:1,
2:

      The standing up of Michael
      The time of trouble
      The deliverance of God’s people
      The special resurrection

Now let us consider how Ellen G. White developed these four events in The
Great Controversy but in reverse order beginning with the fourth item on the
list, the special resurrection and working backwards:

      The Great Controversy, p. 637: Ellen White quotes Daniel 12:2 to
       describe the fourth item on the list, the special resurrection.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 230 of 267
       “Graves are opened, and "many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth...
       awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting
       contempt." Daniel 12:2.”

    The Great Controversy, p. 635: Ellen White describes the third item on
       the list. The chapter’s title is ‘God’s People Delivered’. At the beginning
       of the chapter she states:

       “The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats
       in the forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in
       every quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels are
       preparing for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity
       that the God of Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen.”

       You will notice also that Ellen White concluded the previous chapter (‘The
       Time of Trouble’) with a clear allusion to Daniel 12:1 where the text tells
       us that those whose names are in the book will be delivered:

       “Glorious will be the deliverance of those who have patiently waited for
       His coming and whose names are written in the book of life.” Ellen G.
       White, The Great Controversy, p. 634

    The Great Controversy, p. 616: Ellen White describes the second item
       on the list by explaining the time of trouble through which God’s people
       will go:

       “The people of God will then be plunged into those scenes of affliction and
       distress described by the prophet as the time of Jacob's trouble.”




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 231 of 267
    The Great Controversy, p. 613: Ellen White begins the chapter on ‘The
       Time of Trouble’ by quoting Daniel 12:1 and then amplifies the meaning
       of the standing up of Michael, the first item on the list.

       “Then Jesus ceases His intercession in the sanctuary above. . . When He
       leaves the sanctuary, darkness covers the inhabitants of the earth. In that
       fearful time the righteous must live in the sight of a holy God without an
       intercessor.”

Summary of Ellen White’s Comments on Daniel 12:1, 2

Let us look now at Ellen White’s development of Daniel 12:1, 2 in its regular
order:

    The Great Controversy, p. 613: The standing up of Michael

    The Great Controversy, p. 616: The time of trouble

    The Great Controversy, p. 635: God’s people delivered

    The Great Controversy, p. 637: The special resurrection

The perceptive reader will notice that Ellen White, in The Great Controversy,
develops the events of Daniel 12:1, 2 in the precise order in which they appear
in Daniel 12:1, 2.

Importance of the Expression ‘at that time’

We cannot understand Daniel 12:1, 2 independently of its immediately
preceding context. It is important to remember that Daniel 12:1, 2 is a
continuation of the flow of events that transpired in the previous verses. We
know this because Daniel 12:1 begins with a time reference, “at that time”. This



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 232 of 267
expression links Daniel 12:1 with what occurred previously in verses 40-45
particularly verses 44 and 45.

The crucial question at this point is this, where would we expect to find Ellen
White’s comments about the events that occur immediately before Daniel 12:1?
The answer is unmistakable. We must find them in the pages that immediately
precede the chapter on the standing up of Michael and the time of trouble.

The Literary Structure of Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1

Now let us carefully consider the literary structure of verses 44b-45 to
determine how they relate to Daniel 12:1. The purpose is to ascertain the event
to which the expression “at that time” points.

A comparison of verses 44 and 45 with Daniel 12:1 reveals that they describe
the same events in the same order but with a different terminology and
emphasis:

Daniel 11:44b-45

   A. The king of the north goes out to destroy and annihilate many (11:44b).
   B. The king of the north sets up the tents of his palace in a strategic place
       between the seas and the glorious holy mountain to give a final
       deathblow to the remnant (11:45a).
   C. The king of the north comes to his end with none to help him (11:45b).

Daniel 12:1

   A. Michael stands up to defend His people (parallel to 11:44b).
   B. A time of trouble such as never was ensues (parallel to 11:45a).
   C. God delivers His people (parallel to 11:45b).



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 233 of 267
Daniel 11:44b-45 and 12:1 are precisely parallel but they portray a different
emphasis. Whereas Daniel 11:44b-45 highlights the activities of the king of the
north and its destiny for oppressing God’s people, Daniel 12:1 focuses on the
jeopardy of God’s people at the hand of the king of the north and their
deliverance by God.

It works out this way:

When the king of the north goes “out with great fury to destroy and annihilate
many” (11:44b), Michael will stand up to protect and defend them (12:1a).

When the king of the north places the tents of his palace in a strategic location
to deliver the final deathblow against God’s people (11:45a; vividly described
in The Great Controversy, p. 635), they will go through a terrible time of trouble
such as never was (12:1b).

However, the king of the north will “come to his end with none to help him”
(11:45b) when God intervenes to deliver His people who are written in the
book (12:1c).

The expression “at that time” thus links Daniel 11:44b-45 with Daniel 12:1. God
answers the actions of the king of the north against the remnant by
counteractions in defense of His faithful remnant.

What about Daniel 11:44A?

What about Daniel 11:44a? The first half of verse 44 tells us that ‘tidings from
the north and from the east will trouble the king of the north’. The ‘tidings from
the north and from the east’ explain the reason why the king of the north will
go out and attempt to destroy and annihilate many:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 234 of 267
“But news from the east and the north shall trouble [alarm or disturb] him [the
king of the north]; therefore, he [the king of the north] shall go out with great
fury to destroy and annihilate many.”

What is this news from the east and the north that so infuriates the king of the
north that he seeks to destroy ‘many’? We must go to the book of Revelation for
the answer because Ellen White wrote that the little book of Daniel is unsealed
by the book of Revelation:

“The books of Daniel and the Revelation are one. One is a prophecy, the other a
revelation; one a book sealed, the other a book opened.” Ellen G. White, Christ
Triumphant, p. 344

Revelation 7:2 describes an angel who ascends from the east having the seal
of the living God. This angel comes to seal the faithful of God upon their
foreheads. In contrast, the land beast will impose the mark of the beast on pain
of death to those who refuse it (Revelation 13:15, 16). Thus, the beast from the
earth gives a death decree against God’s people at the behest of the beast from
the sea—the papacy.

Revelation 18:1-5 portrays a powerful angel who descends from heaven (the
north according to Isaiah 14:13 and Psalm 48:1, 2) and gives a clarion call for
God’s people to reject the mark of the beast and to get out of Babylon before
she suffers the seven last plagues and comes to her end.

Thus, the book of Revelation identifies the tidings from the north and from the
east as the message of the sealing and the call to come out of Babylon.

Ellen White concurs with this Biblical view. The title of the chapter that
immediately precedes the standing up of Michael and the time of trouble bears


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 235 of 267
the title, “The Final Warning.” Ellen White begins this chapter in The Great
Controversy, p. 603 by quoting Revelation 18:1, 2, 4 and 5. In perfect
accordance with Daniel 11:44a and Revelation 7:2 she then described on page
605 the issue that will divide the world:

“While the observance of the false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state,
contrary to the fourth commandment, will be an avowal of allegiance to a power
that is in opposition to God, the keeping of the true Sabbath, in obedience to God's
law, is an evidence of loyalty to the Creator. While one class, by accepting the sign
of submission to earthly powers, receive the mark of the beast, the other
choosing the token of allegiance to divine authority, receive the seal of God.”
Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 605

In the same chapter, Ellen White went on to describe the anger that this
message will cause in the religious world:

“The power attending the message will only madden those who oppose it.” Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 607

Furthermore, in the next chapter Ellen White flashes back to events that
occurred before the time of trouble:

“The power attending the last warning has enraged the wicked; their anger is
kindled against all who have received the message, and Satan will excite to still
greater intensity the spirit of hatred and persecution.” Ellen G. White, The Great
Controversy, pp. 614, 615

Thus, the news from the north is identified in Revelation 18 as the Loud Cry of
the angel who descends from heaven (the north) and the news from the east is
the message concerning the seal of God in Revelation 7. Daniel 11:44a describes


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 236 of 267
this message from the north and the east that enrages the king of the north to
the point of wanting to destroy God’s remnant as described in Daniel 11:44b.

The Beginning Point of Daniel 11:40-45

We have focused in this article primarily on the events from Daniel 11:44 to
Daniel 12:2. But if we continued moving backwards in The Great Controversy
(before page 603) we would find, in reverse order, that Ellen White expounds
upon each phrase of Daniel 11:40-45 ending with the chapter on “The Bible and
the French Revolution” where the deadly wound of Daniel 11:40a is described
(The Great Controversy, pp. 265-288). Though she does not employ the
terminology of verses 40-45, the sequence of events clearly reveals that she is
discussing these verses.

Daniel 11:40a tells us that the king of the south would push at the king of the
north at the time of the end. Ellen White clearly identifies the beginning of the
time of the end as the year 1798 when France dealt the papacy its deadly wound
(The Great Controversy, p. 356). The word ‘push’ does not adequately portray
the idea of the text. The historical event that this word describes was not a
friendly nudge or shove. The NIV translates: “will engage him in battle’ while
the ESV translates “shall attack him’. That is, in the year 1798 some power
described as the king of the south would attack the king of the north.

There is a wide consensus among students of prophecy in the Seventh-day
Adventist Church that the king of the north represents the papacy.
Furthermore, until recent times there was a broad consensus that the king of
the south represents secularism as exhibited in the French Revolution.
However, times have changed and some Adventist preachers, as they look at



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 237 of 267
current events, are reinterpreting the king of the south as a symbol of militant
Islam.

Literally and geographically speaking the king of the south was Egypt because
Egypt was the kingdom south of Israel (see Daniel 11:5, 8). However, in
eschatology we are not dealing with literal geographical locations but rather
with global systems.

Who is the king of the south, symbolically speaking? I believe that Revelation
11 (further described in the fifth and sixth trumpets) clearly identifies France
as ‘spiritual Egypt’ (verse 8). While Babylon represents a global apostate
religious system, Egypt symbolizes the secular powers of the world that threw
off the yoke of papal Rome beginning with France. Revelation 17 explains that
for a very short while at the end of time, the secular powers of the world will
once again join together in unholy wedlock with the harlot but in the end the
kings of the earth will hate the Babylonian harlot and destroy her (Revelation
17:15, 16).

In Biblical times, Babylon was the literal king of the north because it was a
literal enemy to the literal north of literal Israel. However, today the king of the
north is a global spiritual system of counterfeit religion—the Roman Catholic
papacy (see Revelation 17:1-6). The papacy is certainly not literally north of
literal Israel (it is actually west). We must therefore interpret the king of the
north and the king of the south symbolically.

Furthermore, what was the main characteristic of France in 1798? The spirit
of the French Revolution was atheism but actually Daniel 11:40a involves far
more than atheism. The genius of the Revolution culminating with the
captivity of Pope Pius VI was to secularize the government and separate it from

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 238 of 267
its adulterous relationship with the church. In the course of several decades
after the French Revolution, country after country in Europe established
secular governments separate from the dominance of the papacy.

In 1862, Cardinal Henry Edward Manning complained about how the secular
governments of Europe had forsaken the papacy:

“’See this Catholic Church, this Church of God, feeble and weak, rejected even by
the very nations called Catholic. There is Catholic France, and Catholic
Germany, and Catholic Italy giving up this exploded figment of the temporal
power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ.’ And so, because the Church seems weak, and
the Vicar of the Son of God is renewing the Passion of his Master upon earth,
therefore we are scandalized, therefore we turn our faces from him.” (The
Temporal Power of the Vicar of Jesus Christ, pp. 140, 141)

Ellen White has stated why the papacy has not been able to ascend to power
once more:

“Let the restraints now imposed by secular governments be removed and Rome
be reinstated in her former power, and there would speedily be a revival of her
tyranny and persecution.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 564

Beginning and Ending Point

We have the following beginning and ending points for Daniel 11:40-45 in The
Great Controversy:

Daniel 11:40a; The Great Controversy, pp. 265-288:

France ‘attacks’ the papacy and inflicts the deadly wound severing the illicit
love relationship between church and state. Thus, the secular powers put a
restraint on the papacy.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 239 of 267
Daniel 11:40b-11:43; The Great Controversy, pp. 289-605:

Events that transpire between the infliction of the deadly wound in 1798 and
the Loud Cry.

Daniel 11:44a; The Great Controversy, p. 605:

The Loud Cry and Sealing Message trouble the papacy.

Daniel 11:44b; 12:1a; The Great Controversy, p. 607 (flashback to the past
in The Great Controversy pp. 614, 615):

The Loud Cry and Sealing Message enrage the wicked against God’s remnant.
Michael stands up, closing the door of probation and defending His people from
the rage of the wicked.

Daniel 11:45a; 12:1b; The Great Controversy, p. 613ff:

A universal death decree against God’s people is signed as the king of the north
sets up his tents outside spiritual Jerusalem (the remnant church) to deliver the
final deathblow against God’s people. This causes a time of trouble for God’s
people such as never has been.

Daniel 11:45b; 12c; The Great Controversy, p. 635ff:

The king of the north comes to his end with none to help him because his
supporters forsake him. As a result, God delivers His people.

Daniel 12:2; The Great Controversy, p. 637:

Those who died in the faith of the third angel’s message rise in a special
resurrection along with those who pierced Jesus.

Thus the two reference points for the beginning and ending of Daniel 11:40-45
are the French Revolution at the beginning as described in The Great

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 240 of 267
Controversy, pp. 265-288 and the deliverance of God’s people and the special
resurrection in The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 637. In between these two
reference points, we have the events that Ellen White describes in The Great
Controversy, pp. 289-604. A careful study of these pages reveals that Ellen
White comments on all the details in verses 40b-43 without actually quoting
the verses or using the verbiage.

Ellen G. White and Islam

It is uncanny how Ellen White vividly describes the events of Daniel 11:40-45
without ever quoting the verses or alluding to the language. The question is,
why did she not simply come out and quote the verses and then comment on
them? There is a clear historical reason.

The original view of the pioneers was that the king of the north represents the
Roman Catholic papacy. This is the clear view expressed in the pamphlet A
Word to the Little Flock Scattered Abroad, coauthored by James and Ellen
White in 1847. However, in the early 1870’s Uriah Smith (who was the highly
respected editor of the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald) changed the view
of the pioneers by reinterpreting the king of the north as Turkey. You see, in
Smith’s day Turkey was prominent in the news so he changed the traditional
view to fit current events.

James White was unhappy about Smith’s new view and accused him of
removing one of the landmarks of the Advent Movement. Things started getting
nasty and members began taking sides. In this context, Ellen White instructed
her husband to desist of his criticism. She knew that an understanding of Daniel
11:40-45 was not a matter of life and death at that time. Her main concern, at
that moment, was to preserve the unity of the church. If Ellen White had quoted

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 241 of 267
the verses of Daniel 11:40-45 and offered a view contradictory to Uriah Smith’s,
she would have been accused of nepotism so she commented on these verses
without quoting them or alluding to the language knowing full well that
someday someone would discover her view of the matter.

Significantly, in the eschatological portion of The Great Controversy, Ellen
White does not mention Islam, even once, as playing any role in the fulfillment
of Bible prophecy in the end time. It appears that Ellen White saw no prophetic
significance to the rise of radical Islam. The same is true of the great chain
prophecies of Scripture. There is no reference to Islam in the prophecies of
Daniel 2, Daniel 7, Daniel 8 and 9, Revelation 12, Revelation 13, Matthew 24 and
Revelation 17 neither is there any reference to Islam in the series of the
churches and the seals.

Ellen White’s silence on the role of Islam in Bible prophecy has puzzled some
Seventh-day Adventist scholars who have concluded that Ellen White simply
did not have all the light on end time events. At least one of these scholars has
even reached the conclusion that Ellen White was wrong in her interpretation
of the little horn as a symbol of the papacy and has reinterpreted it as Islam.

Do not get me wrong. I am not saying that Islam might not play a role in the
precipitation of end time events as Ellen White describes them in The Great
Controversy. It is true that Islam might serve as the catalyst for the fulfillment
of Bible prophecies concerning the United States and the papacy, but I do not
believe that prophecy contemplates the rising power of militant Islam directly
by prophecy.

That is to say, in the light of the Biblical evidence I do not believe that radical
Islam fulfills any specific end time prophecy but very well could serve as the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 242 of 267
catalyst for the fulfillment of prophecy. Radical Islam has brought the United
States to prominence and has led it to flex its military muscles. It has made the
curtailing of our civil and religious liberties easier and it has also misdirected
the eyes of Christians (and even a few Seventh-day Adventists) to the Middle
East for the fulfillment of prophecy thus hiding from view the powers that will
play a role in end time events, the papacy and apostate Protestantism.

Time has proven that Uriah Smith’s reinterpretation of the king of the north
was wrong. Will we learn from his mistake? Will we ever learn that the best way
to understand prophecy is not to read the newspapers or to watch CNN but
rather to study our Bibles?




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 243 of 267
Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 244 of 267
 THE TYPOLOGY OF SENAQUERIB’S INVASION
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr



In the year 722 BC, King Sargon II came from the North Country, besieged
Samaria, and took it. Then, in the year 701 BC, Assyria turned its attention to
Judah. Senaquerib swept from north to south and conquered everything in his
path and he was certain that Jerusalem and Judah would fall into his hands as
well. Isaiah 8:7, 8 compares his invasion of the Holy Land with the overflowing
waters of the River Euphrates:

“Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the River,
strong and mighty —the king of Assyria and all his glory; he will go up over all his
channels and go over all his banks. 8 He will pass through Judah, he will overflow
and pass over, he will reach up to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings
will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.”

The full story of Senaquerib’s invasion of the Holy Land is in Isaiah 36 and 37.

The key word in these chapters is ‘deliver’ (36:14, 15 (2x), 36:18 (2x), 19, 20
(2x); 37:11, 12). Sennaquerib sought to intimidate those who took refuge in
Jerusalem by reviewing his recent successes. He reminded those who fled to the




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 245 of 267
city that he had already taken the fortified cities of Judah in the Holy Land
(Isaiah 36:1) and he was certain that Jerusalem would suffer the same fate.

Therefore, Sennaquerib sent great army with Rabshakeh, his field commander,
to Jerusalem with horses and chariots (36:2; 37:24). Three representatives
from the city went out to meet him, Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, Shebna the scribe
and Joah the son of Asaph (36:3).

Rabshakeh delivered a message from Sennaquerib referring to him as the great
king, the king of Assyria (36:4). It bears noting that only God is the great king
who dwells in Jerusalem in the sides of the north (Psalm 48:1, 2). Thus, the
Assyrian king was usurping the position of the legitimate King of the North.

Rabshakeh delivered a message to King Hezekiah mocking him for saying that
he had an army with which to make war against the great king of Assyria. He
then made fun of Hezekiah for trusting that his ally, Egypt, would lend support
to defeat the great king (36:5, 6).

Rabshakeh then attempted to bribe Judah to submit voluntarily to the king by
making a peace treaty. In fact, he claimed that Jerusalem would not escape
because God Himself had instructed him to march against the city to destroy it.
(36:7-10). Sennaquerib was saying to Hezekiah, “if the LORD instructed me to
destroy the city, how then can you depend upon Him to deliver you?” (36:9, 10).
Rabshakeh in a threatening tone bellowed out:

"Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria! 14 Thus says the king: 'Do
not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you; 15 nor let
Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, "The Lord will surely deliver us; this
city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria."' (36:13-15)

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 246 of 267
Again, Rabshakeh called upon Judah to make peace with him so that all would
go well for them. He promised that if they submitted to the great king, they
would eat bread and drink wine instead of eating their own waste and drinking
their own urine (36:16, 7)

Then Rabshakeh reminded them that the great king had conquered all the
nations before he came to Jerusalem (36:18-20; 37:11-13, 18) and that their
gods had not been able to deliver them (36:19, 20). Three times he used the
expression ‘from my hand’, an expression that we find in Daniel 11 (see Daniel
11:41, 42):

“Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim?
Indeed, have they delivered Samaria from my hand? 20 Who among all the gods
of these lands have delivered their countries from my hand, that the Lord should
deliver Jerusalem from my hand?'"

The king had conquered everything in his path and Jerusalem was the last stand
against his power. If Sennaquerib could conquer the city, his triumph would be
complete.

Once again, Rabshakeh mocked the possible help of Egypt (36:5, 6) and even
went so far as to ask the question, ‘will you trust in the LORD? (36:7). In other
words, the blasphemous challenge was not only against Judah but also against
the LORD! He challenged those who had found refuge in the city telling them
that Hezekiah would not be able to deliver them (36:14).

Going a step further, he blasphemously claimed that the LORD would not be
able to deliver them either (36:15, 18). He pointed out that the gods of the


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 247 of 267
nations (and he mentioned several of them by name, including Samaria) had
not been able to deliver them from the great king’s power (36:19, 20) and the
God of Judah would not be able to deliver them either.

In response, King Hezekiah had told the people that they should not answer the
king’s threats with a single word and it was so (36:21). Then the three
representatives from Jerusalem rent their clothes and relayed the message of
the field commander to King Hezekiah (36:22).

In response, Hezekiah tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth and went
into the house of the LORD (37:1). As the story develops, we will see that
Hezekiah’s affliction was not due to fear of the king but rather holy indignation
because the king blasphemed the name of the LORD. Hezekiah did not make it
a priority to organize and rally his troops.

Hezekiah sent Eliakim, Shebna, and the elders of the priests, covered with
sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz for divine direction from the
LORD (37:2; a similar case is 2 Chronicles 20:20 when a threefold coalition
came against God’s people in the days of King Jehoshaphat). The
representatives told Isaiah that this was a day of trouble, of rebuke and of
blasphemy because Sennaquerib had reproached the living God (37:3; see also
Jeremiah 30:4-9; Genesis 32:6ff; Daniel 12:1; Matthew 24:21-24). Their hope
was that the LORD had heard the blasphemous words and would intervene to
deliver his remnant:

“It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his
master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will rebuke



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 248 of 267
the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayer for
the remnant that is left.'" (37:4, 5)

Isaiah the prophet then delivered a message from the Lord to King Hezekiah:

“And Isaiah said to them, ‘Thus you shall say to your master, thus says the Lord:
‘Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of
the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me. 7 Surely I will send a spirit upon him,
and he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall
by the sword in his own land.’” (37:6)

Rabshakeh then returned and gave a report to the king of Assyria (37:8, 9) to
which the king responded by defying the God of heaven:

"Thus you shall speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying: 'Do not let your God in
whom you trust deceive you, saying, "Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand
of the king of Assyria." 11 Look! You have heard what the kings of Assyria have
done to all lands by utterly destroying them; and shall you be delivered? 12 Have
the gods of the nations delivered those whom my fathers have destroyed, Gozan
and Haran and Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar? 13 Where is
the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim,
Hena, and Ivah?'" (37:10-13)

When Hezekiah received the defiant message from Sennaquerib, he went into
the temple, laid the king’s letter before the LORD, and prayed a beautiful prayer
(37:14-20). In his prayer he addressed God as the One who dwells between the
cherubim (see Psalm 80:1 and its context), the God of all kingdoms who created
heaven and earth. Hezekiah then pleaded for God to open His eyes and ears to
see and hear all the words that Sennaquerib spoke to ‘reproach the living God’.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 249 of 267
He ‘reminded’ the LORD that the kings of Assyria had laid waste all nations and
their lands and cast their gods into the fire ‘because they were not gods but the
work of men’s hands’ and that, for this reason, they destroyed them.

At the climax of his prayer, Hezekiah pleaded, ‘Lord God, save us from his hand
(a synonym of ‘deliver us’). The expression ‘save us from his hand’ appears in
Daniel 11:41 where Edom, Moab and Ammon escape or are delivered from the
hand of the king of the north. However, Hezekiah was not so much concerned
with deliverance to escape destruction as ‘that all the kingdoms of the earth
may know that you are the LORD, you alone’.

In response to Hezekiah’s prayer Isaiah relayed a message from the LORD
assuring him that, because he had prayed, God was going to deliver Judah from
the hand of Sennaquerib. In the first part of the message, God challenged
Sennaquerib:

"Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? Against whom have you raised
your voice, and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel.”
(Isaiah 37:23)

A similar occurrence took place when Israel left Egypt. When Pharaoh pursued
Israel into the Red Sea, God caused the wheels of Pharaoh’s six hundred chariots
to fall off and Pharaoh exclaimed, ‘Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord
fights for them against the Egyptians." (Exodus 14:25). In other words, the war
against the people of the LORD was a war against the LORD of the people
(37:22, 28, 29). God assured Sennaquerib that He knew all about his going out
and coming in and his rage against Him:



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 250 of 267
"But I know your dwelling place, your going out and your coming in, and your
rage against Me. 29 Because your rage against Me and your tumult have come
up to My ears, therefore I will put My hook in your nose and My bridle in your lips,
and I will turn you back by the way which you came." (37:28, 29).

Then God assured Sennaquerib that He would save a remnant in the city in His
Holy Mount and promised that Sennaquerib would not come into the city:

“The remnant of those who have escaped shall take root for out of Jerusalem shall
go a remnant, and those who escape from Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of
hosts will do this. 33 "Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria:
'He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it
with shield, nor build a siege mound against it. 34 By the way that he came, by the
same shall he return; and he shall not come into this city,' Says the Lord. 35 'For
I will defend this city, to save it for My own sake and for My servant David's sake.'"
(Isaiah 37:31-35).

The very evening that Sennaquerib gathered his troops to attack the city, God
intervened to deliver it:

“Then the angel of the Lord went out, and killed in the camp of the Assyrians one
hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when people arose early in the morning,
there were the corpses—all dead”.

Sennaquerib, so to speak, with his tail between his legs, returned to Niniveh,
the capital of his empire and his own sons killed him:

“So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went away, returned home, and
remained at Nineveh. 38 Now it came to pass, as he was worshiping in the house


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 251 of 267
of Nisroch his god that his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him down with
the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat.” (Isaiah 37:36-38)

Isaiah 30:26ff describes the destruction of Senaquerib’s army. Ellen White
specifically quotes Isaiah 30 in an eschatological context when God delivers His
people from the flooding of the symbolic River Euphrates:

“The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the
forests and the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every
quarter companies of armed men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing
for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost extremity that the God of
Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His chosen. Saith the Lord; "Ye shall
have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept; and gladness of heart,
as when one goeth . . . to come into the mountain of the Lord, to the Mighty One of
Israel. And the Lord shall cause His glorious voice to be heard, and shall show the
lighting down of His arm, with the indignation of His anger, and with the flame of
a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones." Isaiah 30:29, 30.

With shouts of triumph, jeering, and imprecation, throngs of evil men are about
to rush upon their prey, when, lo, a dense blackness, deeper than the darkness of
the night, falls upon the earth. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the
throne of God, spans the heavens and seems to encircle each praying company.
The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their mocking cries die away. The
objects of their murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings they gaze
upon the symbol of God's covenant and long to be shielded from its overpowering
brightness.” Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 635, 636




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 252 of 267
        JOEL 2:32, ACTS 2 AND REVELATION 14
                              By Pastor Stephen Bohr


The Partial Fulfillment of Joel 2

#1: Before Pentecost, believers consecrated their all to the Lord and were in
prayer, study, fellowship and in perfect unity—all of one accord (Acts 1:14;
2:1).

#2: There was a great revival in the Upper Room.

#3: God poured out His Spirit in Early Rain power upon those gathered in the
Upper Room (Acts 2:1-4; Joel 2:32).

#4: Then Peter quoted Joel 2:28-32 as the main Scripture of his sermon saying
that the prophecy of Joel found its fulfillment at Pentecost (2:17-21).

#5: The prophecy of Joel 2:28-32 found only a partial fulfillment on the day of
Pentecost (as John the Baptist partially fulfilled the Elijah prophecy of Malachi
4:5, 6). There were certain aspects in Acts 2 that did not find their fulfillment at
Pentecost. God did not pour out His Spirit on all flesh and there were no ‘signs
in the earth beneath: Blood, fire and vapor of smoke.’ Furthermore, the sun was
not ‘turned into darkness and the moon into blood’ (Acts 2:19, 20)


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 253 of 267
#6: Joel wrote about the deliverance in Zion and Jerusalem for those who call
on the name of Yahweh. However, Peter in Acts identified Yahweh as Jesus
Christ. Paul wrote that the Corinthian church worshiped Jesus as ‘Lord’ in His
own day (1 Corinthians 1:2) Verse 8 tells us that the second coming is the day
of the Lord Jesus Christ (see also Romans 10:9-13).

#7: It is important to understand that Joel 2:28-32 has a dual application. The
calling upon the name of the Lord on the day of Pentecost was to save people
spiritually from their sins. This is the reason why our Lord’s name is Jesus (see,
Matthew 1:21). Those whom Jesus delivers from sin become citizens of
Spiritual Jerusalem, the church. Thus, in Acts 2 Jerusalem is spiritual, not literal.

However, in the end time application of Joel 2:32 calling upon the name of the
Lord is not for salvation from sins. At this time, the elect will call upon the name
of the Lord for salvation from physical annihilation. The parable of Jesus in Luke
18:1-8 applies to this period as does the second stage of the fifth seal
(Revelation 6:9-11). The redeemed will cry out day and night for God to judge
their oppressors and avenge their blood (see Revelation 19:1, 2).

#8: On the day of Pentecost, Peter preached boldly that the Father had installed
Jesus as King and High Priest of spiritual Israel in the holy place of the heavenly
sanctuary (Acts 2:31-33).

#9: The outpouring of the Holy Spirit led to a great evangelistic outreach (see
Acts 1:7, 8). Three thousand souls joined the Christian church on the Day of
Pentecost followed by five thousand a short while later. The message grew like
a California grassfire all over the Roman Empire.



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 254 of 267
#10: The revival and preaching of Jesus in Acts 2 led to persecution against the
apostles in chapters three and four. The apostate Jewish church hated and
persecuted those who were in spiritual Jerusalem. The hatred was toward Jesus
in the person of those who had embraced Him as Savior and Lord (2 Timothy
3:12).

#11: Peter actually quoted Psalm 2 (Acts 4:23-30) as the explanation for what
was happening. In the original context, the Gentile nations gathered against
David, on the day of his anointing as King of Israel. However, at Pentecost, the
Jewish leadership gathered against Christ in the person of His witnesses. Thus,
in Peter’s view, the apostate Jews were the Gentiles or heathen of Joel 2 and 3.

#12: The religious leadership hated Peter and John because they preached
Jesus and reflected His character. The enemies of the apostles hated them
because they had been with Jesus (Acts 4:13). The religious leaders vented their
hatred against Jesus by attacking His disciples, Peter and John. Their hatred was
purely spiritual. They attacked the faithful because of their relationship with
Jesus. God does not have two separate Israel’s, one literal and the other
spiritual. He has only one true Israel that He defines based on their relationship
with Christ. The war was against the disciples because they claimed Jesus as
Lord. They hated Jesus and therefore they hated his people.

#13: Peter’s reference to Joel 2 in Acts makes it clear that the fulfillment of Joel
2 took place with a qualified Israel, that is, with those in Israel who accepted
Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord (see Galatians 3:16, 26-29; Romans 2:28, 28;
Romans 9:6-8). The book of Acts is the Christological fulfillment of Joel 2.
However, Joel 2 and 3 will have a greater eschatological fulfillment with Christ


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 255 of 267
and His people versus those who are against Christ and His people. Those who
will be against God’s people are ones who claim Christ (see John 16:1-3). In the
church there are wheat and tares, good and bad fish, wise and foolish virgins,
those who have an appearance of godliness, those who have been forgiven but
are not forgiving and those who say Lord, Lord but are transgressors of God’s
law.

#14: The same prophecies that found a partial and limited fulfillment in the
early rain will fulfill again in the latter rain but on a global scale.

#15: An important question comes to the fore at this point. If prophecy
predicted that God would protect Jerusalem and not allow the enemies to enter
the city, why did God not protect Jerusalem in AD 70 from the Romans? Was
God unfaithful to His covenant? No, he was actually very faithful to the
covenant. He gave the Jewish theocracy 70 weeks to repent of their covenant
unfaithfulness and they did not. He then gave them 40 additional years to
repent and they still did not repent of their covenant unfaithfulness.

The doom of Jerusalem in AD 70 shows that no literal Israel in unbelief will
receive the fulfillment of the Joel’s or any other prophecy. Only the Israel of God
who is in a covenant relationship with Jesus will receive the promise of the
outpouring of the Holy Spirit and His protecting care.

From Pentecost on, the Jews were the greatest persecutors of the Christians.
Why did Saul of Tarsus persecute the church? It was because they were
Christians! He fought against Christ in the person of His church. In AD 70, there
were two groups in Jerusalem. Christians who had gathered to Christ and those



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 256 of 267
who were scattered because they rejected Christ. Gathering and scattering has
to do with a relationship with Christ, not being present or absent from the land.

Matthew 23:37-39 explains that God allowed the Romans to destroy Jerusalem
because the Hebrew theocracy rejected the covenant Lord and therefore they
were no longer His chosen people. God took the kingdom from them and gave
it to a nation that would produce the fruits thereof (Matthew 21:42, 43):

“Jerusalem was lost because of its obstinate refusal to acknowledge the truth.
This the world is doing today. Men refuse to see the truth that the word of God
plainly reveals. A ‘Thus saith the Lord’ is regarded as of no account, while the
words of men are given great authority. Therefore, as the inhabitants of
Jerusalem were punished, so will those be punished who refuse to receive truth.
God would have us realize that by the city of Jerusalem a world is represented.
Christ's utterances regarding the destruction of Jerusalem are ever to be
connected with the more terrible destruction of the world.” Ellen G. White, The
Review and Herald, December 13, 1898.

God cannot gather His people in the city and protect them if they break the
covenant relationship with the Lord! The Christians fled from the city because
they were the true, faithful Israel. God continued the blessings of the covenant
from literal Israel to spiritual Israel. Jerusalem is now the gathering ‘place’ for
the faithful and that place is the global Christian Church.

The Eschatological Fulfillment of Joel 2

Ellen White understood that the scenes that transpired at Pentecost would
occur once more but with greater power:


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 257 of 267
“These scenes [at Pentecost] are to be repeated, and with greater power. The
outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost was the former rain, but the
latter rain will be more abundant.” Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 121
“But near the close of earth's harvest, a special bestowal of spiritual grace is
promised to prepare the church for the coming of the Son of man. This outpouring
of the Spirit is likened to the falling of the latter rain; and it is for this added power
that Christians are to send their petitions to the Lord of the harvest "in the time
of the latter rain." In response, "the Lord shall make bright clouds, and give them
showers of rain." "He will cause to come down . . . the rain, the former rain, and
the latter rain," Zechariah 10:1; Joel 2:23.” Ellen G. White, Ellen G. White, The Acts
of the Apostles, p. 55

The prophecy of Joel 2:32 will have another fulfillment:

“The great work of the gospel is not to close with less manifestation of the power
of God than marked its opening. The prophecies that were fulfilled in the
outpouring of the former rain at the opening of the gospel are again to be
fulfilled in the latter rain at its close. Here are ‘the times of refreshing’ to which
the apostle Peter looked forward when he said: ‘Repent ye therefore, and be
converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall
come from the presence of the Lord; and He shall send Jesus.’ Acts 3:19, 20.

“The work [under the latter rain] will be similar to that of the Day of Pentecost.
As the ‘former rain’ was given, in the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at the opening
of the gospel, to cause the upspringing of the precious seed, so the ‘latter rain’
will be given at its close for the ripening of the harvest. ‘Then shall we know if we
follow on to know the Lord: His going forth is prepared as the morning; and He


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 258 of 267
shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.’ Hosea
6:3. ‘Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God: for He hath
given you the former rain moderately, and He will cause to come down for you the
rain, the former rain, and the latter rain.’ Joel 2:23. ‘In the last days, saith God, I
will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh." "And it shall come to pass, that
whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.’ Acts 2:17, 21. Ellen
G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 611, 612

Joel 2 and 3

Joel 2:1-11: The second coming of Jesus climaxing with the question: ‘The great
day of His wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand?’

Joel 2:12-18: A great Day of Atonement revival among God’s people in
preparation for the latter rain.

Joel 2:23, 28-32: The latter rain gathers God’s faithful people in spiritual
Jerusalem after which, in chapter 3, the nations will gather in the winepress
outside the city with the intention of attacking those who are within the city.

Revelation 14

    Revelation 14:1-5 describes the climax when the faithful remnant stands
       victorious on Mt. Zion and Jerusalem.
    Then comes the description of the events that led up to this climax, the
       three angels’ messages (14:6-12).
    The ripening of the harvest and grapes by the latter rain (14:15, 18).
    The three angels’ messages empowered by the latter rain divides the
       world into two groups, the harvest and the grapes.

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 259 of 267
    With the sickle, Jesus harvests the harvest of the earth, the righteous.
    Jesus then harvests the grapes and throws them into the winepress of
       God’s wrath outside the city—the seven last plagues (14:14).
    The wicked outside the city have gathered to attack God’s faithful people
       (15:1; 19:11-21).
    Jesus and the armies of heaven ride on horses to trample the winepress
       outside the city (14:19)
    God delivers His people who are gathered inside the Holy City (14:20)
    The 144,000 stand on Mt. Zion victorious over the beast, his image and
       his mark (15:2-4).

Detailed Explanation of Revelation 14

Here is the order of events in Revelation 14:

    There will be powerful preaching that will swell the three angels’
       messages into the Loud Cry.
    The remnant will expose the deceptions of Babylon (Revelation 18:1-5)
       and call God’s people to come out and join God’s faithful people in
       spiritual Jerusalem. People from every nation, kindred, tongue and
       people will respond to the call and gather in spiritual Jerusalem.
    The Loud Cry message will polarize the world into two groups. It will
       soften hearts and harden hearts. Many in the Seventh-day Adventist
       church will leave and those who come out of Babylon will take their
       places.
    Revelation describes the faithful as ‘the harvest of the earth’ (Joel 3:13;
       14:15) and Jesus gathers them into the spiritual city of Jerusalem.


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 260 of 267
    The sickle first reaps the harvest and then the grapes. Both are ripe
       because the wicked are hopelessly wicked and the righteous are
       unchangeably righteous (Revelation 22:11).
    The book of Joel gives the command to ‘put in the sickle of Yahweh’ while
       Revelation states that the Son of Man puts in the sickle. The inevitable
       conclusion is that the Jesus of Revelation is the Yahweh of Joel. The
       harvest is the end of probationary time (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object
       Lessons, p. 72).
    When probation closes, there are only two groups: Those who found
       refuge in the city and those who are outside the city in the winepress.
    Joel states that the harvest is ripe. However, Revelation says seven times
       that ‘the harvest of the earth is ripe’. This is not some local judgment in
       the Valley of Jehoshaphat but rather a global judgment. The book of
       Revelation universalizes the judgment.
    According to Joel 2, the wicked prepare for war against Jerusalem (3:9-
       11) and God brings down His warriors there as well (3:11).
    Joel 3:1-4 describes the reason why God is going to trample the wicked
       grapes in the winepress: They oppressed His people. The outpouring of
       the latter rain and the gathering message (Joel 2:28-32) enrages the
       nations and they now turn against those who proclaim the tidings from
       the east and the north or the Loud Cry and the sealing message (Daniel
       11:11).
    The name ‘Jehoshaphat’ means, “Yahweh will judge”. The parallel is in
       Revelation 19 where Jesus judges and makes war (19:1, 2, 11). The
       coming of Jesus with the armies of heaven is not the investigative



Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 261 of 267
       judgment but rather the executive judgment. This is the battle of
       Armageddon (Revelation 16:16).
    The heathen nations surround Jerusalem in the whole world (in the
       winepress) outside the city with the intention of destroying the Spirit
       filled remnant who have gathered spiritually to Jesus in the spiritual city
       (3:12). The motive for the war is purely spiritual and not economic,
       geographical, or ethnic. ‘Jerusalem and Zion’ in Joel 2:32, ‘tents of his
       palace’ (Daniel 11:45) and ‘the Mount of the Congregation’ 16:16) are all
       the same place. This leads to the time of trouble that we find in Daniel
       12:1.

We must understand the final persecution against the remnant in the context
of the covenant. The wicked gather against spiritual Jerusalem because they
hate the people who are in a covenant relationship with the Lord. The battle is
not for the literal land of Israel. At this point in history, the wicked cannot lay
hands on the Lord and therefore they go after His people. Revelation 12
presents a similar scenario. When Satan is unable to overcome Christ, he goes
after the woman. The final remnant have entered into a faithful covenant
relationship with the Lord. The literal Jewish theocracy broke their relationship
with the Lord and therefore they are no longer His chosen people. Joel 3:16, 17
tell us that Jerusalem is holy because God dwells there, he does not dwell there
because Jerusalem is holy.

Saul of Tarsus was persecuting Christ when he persecuted the church. Those
who are the people’s enemies are God’s enemies. To decide whom Israel is, and
who are the heathen we must go to Christ, not geography or ethnicity. Christ in
the valley of Jehoshaphat will judge the nations (3:12, 2). When we bypass the

Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 262 of 267
New Testament, we bypass Christ and we interpret the prophecies of the Old
Testament isolated from Christ this would be an atheistic approach.

We find a parallel idea in Ezekiel 36-39. There, the nations come from the four
corners of the earth because they intend to destroy those who have taken
refuge inside Jerusalem (Ezekiel 38:14-16). Those who are inside experienced
a great spiritual revival in chapters 36, 37 and this enraged their enemies (in
this context, consider the sequence of events in Ezekiel 39:21-29 and Zechariah
2:2-5). The final war is not over geographical or ethnic issues but deeply
spiritual. When Christ is the key, His church is the key because the church is the
body of Christ. Where the head goes, the body will go. An attack on the sheep is
an attack on the shepherd. This is not a battle of Jews versus Gentiles but rather
the righteous versus the wicked.

Scholars have not paid enough attention to the geographical progression of the
king of the north’s conquests as noted above. Daniel 11:40-45 compares the
devastating invasion of the king of the north with the onslaught of the
Euphrates river at flood stage (see also Isaiah 8:7-8; Revelation 16:12-16; 17:1-
6, 15).

The overflowing river originates in Babylon and then moves west
overwhelming the countries north of Israel—Syria, Lebanon, Tyre and Sidon
(verse 40). The river then continues moving south, enters the glorious land of
Palestine and overthrows many people there (verse 41). As it overwhelms
Edom, Moab and Ammon east of Israel, multitudes escape and flee for refuge in
Jerusalem (verse 41). The river then continues moving south, overflowing
Egypt, Ethiopia and Libya (verses 42-43).


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 263 of 267
However, when the king of the north is in Egypt (south and west of Israel),
tidings from the north and the east (these tidings are coming from Jerusalem
because Jerusalem is north and east of Egypt) shake him up (verse 44). The
news is so alarming that he moves toward the north and east and finally pitches
the tents of his palace in a strategic place between the Mediterranean and
Mount Zion intent on making a devastating strike against the Holy City where
the tidings are coming from (verse 45).

It is vital to realize that at this point, the king of the north has overcome the
entire civilized world of the time. He only needs to gain one more victory to
have total ‘global’ control. If he can defeat Jerusalem where the tidings are
coming from, his triumph will be complete. However, when he is about to strike
the final blow against Jerusalem, he comes to his end with none to help him. His
helpers, the kings of the earth, the false prophet, the merchants and the
multitudes will withdraw their support from him.

The wicked will hate the remnant because they fear God, give glory to Him, keep
his Sabbath, denounce Babylon, warn against the beast, his image and his mark,
keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

Jeremiah 25:30-38 gives a fuller description of the trampling of the false
shepherds in the winepress. In ancient times, the owners of vineyards cast
grapes in a large vat and then trampled upon them to make wine. As they
trampled the grapes, the juice splattered onto the garments and it looked like
blood. Isaiah 63:1-6 describes how Christ, when He comes is going to crush the
wicked because of their attempt to slay those who have made a covenant with
Him. Revelation 19 further expands upon the concept of the winepress theme


Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 264 of 267
but removes the geographical limitations of Edom and Bozrah. Revelation
19:11-15 identifies the horses that trample the winepress outside the city in
Revelation 14:20 as the armies of heaven (see also, Joel 3:13; Revelation 15:1).

What is the meaning of the 1,600 stadia in Revelation 14:20? The 1,600 stadia
is an intensified multiple of four. It is actually 4 x 4 x 100 = 1,600. The
intensification of the number four means that the battle is global. In a similar
way, the number 144,000 is 12 x 12 x 1,000 = 144,000. Revelation 14 interprets
the Valley of Jehoshaphat as a worldwide valley. Those inside the city are safe
while the horses trample the wicked who are outside the city in the winepress.
Those inside can claim the promises of the covenant and those outside cannot.
When the grapes fight against the people of God, they are fighting against the
God of the people because His people are in a covenant relationship with Him
(in Exodus 14 the LORD fought for Israel).

The final battle is not in the little valley of Jehoshaphat in the Middle East. It is
a battle between the beast, the false prophets and the kings of the earth and the
whole world and Christ, and the heavenly hosts and His faithful covenant
people (Revelation 16:13, 14).

Joel 2:32 contains two words that are of particular importance in this context.
The words ‘saved’ and ‘deliverance’ (ESV). As we have seen, both of these words
appear in Daniel 11. The words ‘escape’ and ‘survivors’ imply persecution (Joel
2:32). The Valley of Jehoshaphat is the valley of decision (3:14). It is God’s
decision against the wicked because they have oppressed His people.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 265 of 267
We must understand the darkening of the Sun, moon and stars (Joel 3:15) in
the light of Matthew 24:29; Joel 2:10, 11; Isaiah 13:10-13. These are not the
same signs of Joel 2:31 (cf. Acts 2:20) and Revelation 6:12, 13.

God’s voice roars and thunders from Jerusalem and earth and sky will shake
(3:16). I Thessalonians 4, John 5, Matthew 24, 1Corinthians 15) God will be a
refuge for His people and He will defend His Holy Hill (Joel 2:32; 3:16, 17). God
will restore His people and destroy their enemies (3:18-21). However, God will
only deliver those who call upon Him in truth (Psalm 145:18). Jesus will be
faithful and true to the covenant promises. When God saves or destroys, He is
faithful and true to the terms of the covenant promises. He is faithful to give
blessings to the faithful and curses to the unfaithful.




Note Regarding Daniel 12:
There will be no commentary by Pastor Bohr on Daniel 12:4-13 because these
verses have been fully addressed in the book “Prophetic Principles: Crucial
Exegetical, Theological, Historical & Practical Insights” published by the
Michigan Conference. Pastor Bohr highly recommends that you try to obtain a
copy for a study of Daniel chapter 12. As of this print it is currently out of print.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 266 of 267
Contact Information




                Secrets Unsealed is a 501(C)3 non-profit ministry.
            Your prayers and financial support are greatly appreciated.




Daniel 11 Study Notes by Pastor Stephen Bohr | SecretsUnsealed.org | SUMTV.org | Page 267 of 267
