You know, we're going to do something in this session
that is going to be repeated quite often
in our whole time together in the Book of Revelation
and that is... we're going to go back
to the Son of man... back to the Son of man...
back to the Son of man...
we're still in Revelation chapter 1,
we haven't quite made it out of Revelation chapter 1,
put a foot out here and an arm out there
but woom... we're back in again
and that's good because really, in a sense,
Revelation chapter 1... the introduction
kind of connects to the rest of the Book
and it helps us because it's laying down the principles,
the foundation, the tools, the resources we need
to be able to interpret the rest of the Book
and one of those main resources is... the Son of man.
John sees Jesus first
and that's what we want to do, we want to make Him first,
so, we're going to jump into this description of Jesus
because it's an interesting description
and we're going to look at it
try to understand it... what it means...
and then compare it with some other portions of the Bible
that have similar descriptions but before we do that,
Jason, would you pray for us and get us started?
Jason: Sure... "Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you for being with us today,
we invite you to take over
and help us to understand
everything that we are studying, thank you for creating us
and not only creating us but sustaining us
and so, we ask that you equip us with the tools needed
so that we can comprehend what we are studying
and retain the information that we are studying
and please be with the people at home
that are watching this as well, in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: Amen, thank you Jason.
So, in Revelation chapter 1,
we're just going to look here in verse 12 and onward...
Yvonne: Before we do that,
could we just look at Revelation 1:1?
James: Sure.
Because I think that just really sets up the entire Book
and "The Revelation of Jesus Christ... "
the Revelation of Jesus Christ
so the Book is revealing Jesus Christ, right?
it's not just about prophecy,
but it's revealing the character of Christ
right, so, "The Revelation of Jesus Christ
which God gave unto him... "
so now we have the Father and the Son
similar to Genesis 1 where...
"In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the deep... "
so it's kind of like... to me...
again, "repeat... " right? "and enlarge"
and so, when I read this,
I thought, "Wow! we have now...
we have the Father in this,
we have the Father revealing the Son,
and this is what Jesus is going to show to his servant,
so it's kind of like this... the Father reveals the Son,
the Son gives to the... the servants...
James: Hierarchy...
Yvonne: Yeah and it's...
to me it was just really, really "revealing" pardon the pun.
And that's a really good point,
I wanted to touch on this for a second
and that is... because theologically...
on a technical term
this is a revelation from God of Jesus... from God...
and so it's actually not just that it's a revelation of Jesus,
it's actually a message "From... "
and people will take one or the other sometimes,
they'll say, "No, no, no, you're wrong,
it's not a revelation of Jesus, it's a revelation from Jesus,
revelation from God to us... "
I don't want to get too technical here
but I think it's both...
I think Yvonne's point is really important and significant
and I think we can prove that and this is how we can prove it,
is the Book itself a revelation of Jesus?
And if the Book itself is a revelation of Jesus
then it's not just a revelation from Jesus,
it's also a revelation of Jesus, I think it's both.
Ivor: Let me add to that,
that... the reason this is so important,
this whole Book, the Book of Revelation
is a revelation of Jesus Christ in this sense...
that Christ is seeking
to manifest Himself within his church,
when the church fully reflects Christ or reveals Christ,
in character, that's the end purpose of this Book,
this is how God is going to perfect His people
and thus have His people reveal Christ
so when the Bride is finally without spot and wrinkle,
there is the revelation of Jesus Christ,
see, it's now totally reflecting Jesus Christ,
so the Bible tells that the hope of glory is what?
Christ revealed in us,
the whole Book of Revelation is showing
how Christ is going to accomplish that work
and bring about a bride that reflects the Son...
right? The Son of righteousness
and so in that sense, the Revelation of Jesus Christ
is really showing what God wants to do in His people.
And how does He do that? and I really...
by-the-way also the Holy Spirit,
we talk about Creation...
the Holy Spirit is mentioned in verse 4,
"the Seven Spirits... " capital S
"which are before the throne"
so all three are there,
as this comes forth, "grace and peace be unto you
from Him and was and is... and is to come;
and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne... "
the Holy Spirit... because when
John begins his vision in verse 10, what does he say?
Jason... or... yeah... go ahead... read it for us...
Yvonne: I took over Jay...
"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day
and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet... "
All right, so, he's in the Spirit
so then we got the Godhead, we got all three there now,
just like in Creation, we got all three,
and as Ivor said and I think that it's important,
God is working to recreate His image in us,
He created us in His image
and now He wants to recreate us in His image,
so we see this... this theme being brought out here
in Revelation chapter 1.
You know, James, I just had a thought and really,
remember how we talked about the numbers one through seven?
And what God did in that first one through seven
is what He's seeking to do again
in these cycles of one through seven.
In other words, in one through seven in Genesis,
you had Creation but the devil marred it,
disrupted it and so now it's as though God is saying,
"Okay, you thought to mess up my plan,
we're going to do this again. "
And so, this cycle of one through seven
is the way and the process through which God is recreating.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... Yvonne: Wow!
Ivor: Yeah.
James: And we know that... that's confirmed again
by the fact that in the garden,
God came to be with Adam and Eve in the cool of the day
and when we get to the end of the Book of Revelation,
God comes to dwell with us
and then, in the garden, we ate of the tree of life
and in Revelation,
we're going to be eating of the Tree of Life,
the Garden is restored...
the Garden is restored, there we are...
Yvonne: Whew, I might have to shout up in here in a minute.
It's good stuff... this is some good stuff right here.
So, he's turning...
he's in the Spirit and he turns to look
and he sees... in the midst of the throne,
in the midst of the candlesticks...
excuse me, not the throne, in the midst of the candlesticks
verse 13... he sees "one like unto the Son of man"
the Son of man...
now this is really interesting
because when he sees the Son of man,
who is Jesus Christ,
the way he sees Him... the way He is described here
is a little bit... could be a little bit unnerving,
I mean... okay... let's just read through it here,
Revelation chapter 13,
Jason, can you read Revelation chapter 1,
excuse me, verses 13, 14, 15 and 16.
So, Revelation chapter 1 verses 13 through 16?
Okay, "And in midst of the seven candlesticks
one like unto the Son of man,
clothed with a garment down to the foot,
and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.
His head and his hairs were white like wool,
as white as snow;
and his eyes were as a flame of fire;
and his feet like unto fine brass,
as if they burned in a furnace;
and his voice as the sound of many waters.
And he had in his right hand seven stars:
and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword:
and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. "
Okay now, the reason why I say
this can be a little bit unnerving
is because you notice what happens
in verse 17 when John sees the Son of man,
"And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead"
Yvonne: Hmmm...
You can look at this picture and you can say,
"Whoa, this is scary, what is this?"
It's Jesus and I think it's important
for us to break down the symbols here
because it's not that John is scared, per se,
like horrified... John is more overwhelmed
with this picture of burning that he sees,
for example, his eyes were like a flame of fire...
have you ever sat in front of a fire?
Yvonne and Jason: Hmmm... hmmm...
the logs... the flame... it's mesmerizing, yeah,
I could just sit there and just look and look...
what is it about that? And I'm not...
this is not unique to me,
"Oh, you're one of those people who likes to look into a fire,"
you know what I'm saying?
No, this is all of us isn't it?
It's like, "Wow!"
And so, when the Bible describes his eyes like a flame of fire,
what it's saying is, "His eyes are mesmerizing,
we want to look into his eyes"
they're just beautiful, they're just attractive
we can just look in His eyes forever...
we can just sit there all night and look into His eyes.
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm...
Of course, we experience that sometimes,
with our first-love experience,
we just want to look into her eyes
or look into his eyes, right? We just want to...
and this is what we're looking at here,
we're looking... because later on...
right in Revelation chapter 2,
we're going to talk about the first-love experience.
In verse 15 it says,
"And his feet were like fine brass"
He's got the Coppertone look,
He's got that nice, attractive, those eyes, the Coppertone look
and then it talks about here... it talks about His voice,
he says, "His voice is as the sound of many waters"
have you ever sat at night listening to water
a stream running, a river running,
the waterfall... just that...
people buy this little water apparatus
that they can put in their house to listen to that...
it's soothing, in other words, Jesus is attractive
and so when we see Jesus in the Book of Revelation,
we don't just see Him... "Oh, there's the Son of man... "
we see Him in a very attractive light,
so attractive and so overwhelming
so beautiful, so gorgeous,
so... that John just falls down...
I mean, it's like... it's like,
when you see that woman... for the first time.
Jason: Yeah like Tiffany...
Like Tiffany... there you go...
you're going to meet her later
but now you see her, "I want to meet her now"
Jason: Yeah...
James: This is the way Jesus is coming across,
"I want to meet Him now, I want to connect with Him now"
And there's a very powerful lesson there
that we talk about the need to die to self,
well, the best way to die to self is to look at Jesus
because no man can see Him and live, it's right there,
no man can see Him and live,
so, as I look at His face,
I look at His glory, self dies, in His presence
a new life in Him,
it's how we get the revelation of Christ in us.
Yvonne: Nice... nice...
it's interesting because this depiction of Christ
is different from the one in Isaiah
where we're told that He had no comeliness
that we would desire Him so this is a different...
this is a different Jesus... James: Glory... glory...
Yvonne: This is the body that was prepared for Him on earth,
is different from this one.
James: He's glorified now... Yvonne: He's glorified now.
And I love what Ivor brought out too
because John dies and that's a great illustration
death to self but then Jesus revives him,
"Don't... " He puts His hand on him...
"Fear not, stand up, be revived"
and we see the same picture by-the-way in the Book of Daniel
in Daniel chapter 10, we see a similar picture
of Christ... He's the man clothed in linen
in Daniel chapter 10,
Yvonne, can you read two verses for us there
in Daniel 10 verses 5 and 6?
Sure, "Then I lifted up mine eyes, and looked,
and behold a certain man clothed in linen,
whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz:
His body also was like the beryl,
and his face as the appearance of lightning,
and his eyes as lamps of fire,
and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass,
and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude. "
You see that... that's similar and then we have
a similar response in Daniel, what does Daniel do?
In verse 7 he talks about how he saw...
"all the men fled," but then in verse 8,
he says, "I was left alone, I saw this great vision,
and there remained no strength in me: for my comeliness... "
my goodness, my righteousness,
all those good things that I thought I had and was,
"they were turned into corruption,
I retained no strength. "
And he says, "I heard the voice
and when I heard the voice... " verse 9...
"then I was in a deep sleep on my face, toward the ground. "
Same thing... Ivor: "as if dead... "
James: As if dead...
And then what happens?
He's revived, heaven revives him.
God revives him,
hand is laid on him... a voice is spoken...
hand is laid on him, a voice is spoken,
see, this is the process we go through
we need to remember that when we see Jesus,
when we behold Jesus,
we're going to be overwhelmed by His goodness
and His unselfishness and His love
and it's going to knock us out,
we're going to feel unworthy, we're going to feel corrupt,
Daniel was a blameless politician, okay,
he was a man who could stand without fault
before fellow politicians,
there are men like that around, here and there even today,
okay, I'm not going to mention any names,
and yet, when he saw Jesus,
all that blamelessness was corruption
because he... he recognized the failure...
we recognize the failure
and so what's going to happen is,
when we're going to see Jesus, we're going to go,
"Ah man! I don't even know why... what... I don't...
I might as well just give up and we die... "
but then Jesus revives us, everyday this happens,
we see Jesus... we die... He revives us...
"Why did I speak that way to my wife?"
"Why am I so selfish towards people?"
"Why is it that I can't be courteous
when I'm driving down the road and someone cuts me off?"
"Why is that I've got all this anger inside?"
"Lord, I just want... I just give up!"
And then Jesus says, "It's all right... "
He touches us, he revives us... He touches us, he revives us
and we go through this process...
Ivor: Death, burial, resurrection
James: Yes!
Ivor: Death, burial, resurrection
so the more we practice death, burial and resurrection,
the more we'll be prepared
for the actual death, burial, resurrection process.
And look, this is an incredible connection now we just made
between Revelation and Daniel,
we're going to... we're going to make that connection more
as we go through the Programs,
right now we're in Revelation, but here's a connection
and this connection reminds us of...
the Book of Revelation is a supplement to the Book of Daniel
there are some principles in Revelation
that help us to understand Daniel...
that will help us to understand the Book of Revelation.
So, we want to actually look at one more principle
that we decided that it was pretty crucial for us to get,
notice again, we haven't jumped into the churches or the seals
or the trumpets yet,
once we get this understanding, then I think we're ready to go
so here's the thing... in the Book of Revelation...
like, if I were to invite you somewhere,
invite you to a wedding,
what two things would you need to know?
When and where.
Timing and location, those two things are crucial
for understanding the Book of Revelation.
Think of the Book of Revelation
as an invitation to the Wedding Feast,
and at every point in the Book of Revelation,
there's a journey that we're on, we need to know where we are.
So, if I drop my finger anywhere in the Book of Revelation,
you should be able to tell me time and location
of what's happening here,
the way that we get location,
we've already discussed... the Sanctuary...
we have to know where we are at any given point
in the Book of Revelation,
"Am I in the Holy Place or the Most Holy Place?"
Right? so that's one thing,
if you don't know where you are, what are you?
Lost... and there's a reason why many people are lost
in the Book of Revelation because, they're like,
I don't even know where this is, so, once you have location,
that's step one,
the other thing that you need is timing,
so let's talk about that very quickly,
oh well, let's talk about that.
In the Book of Daniel there are three "Time Prophecies"
okay, and we're going to go into this in more detail
again in a later study,
but we're just going to kind of summarize it now.
There is the 70-week Prophecy that's found in Daniel 9,
now that prophecy basically pointed forward
to the coming of Christ, okay, that's just in... in a nutshell,
it pointed forward to the coming of Christ as the Messiah,
the 1,260-year Prophecy is found in Daniel chapter 7,
and that prophecy points to this power
that is identified as the "Little Horn"
who would think to change "times and laws,"
okay, the third prophecy is the 2,300-day Prophecy,
which brings us down to the year 1844
and again we'll go into this in more detail later on.
And that's in Daniel 8, so you have Daniel 7... 1,260
you have Daniel 8... 2,300, Daniel 9... 70 weeks.
Now, the key thing to understand is that
three prophecies are really one,
they're just one time prophecy
so they are different sections of the same prophecy,
so when the 70 weeks, we understand the 70 weeks
and all scholars understand the 70 weeks
to be 70 weeks of years,
so the 490 days... 70 weeks... is really 490 years
but since the 1,260 and the 2,300
are connected to the same prophecy,
then they're all what...? A day for a year... right?
Very simple, so you have 490 years...
that's the 70-weeks,
the 1,260... years... and then the 2,300 years...
this is the measuring stick for the entire Bible,
okay, specifically for the Book of Revelation,
this is how we get Historicism.
Historicism is a teaching that
once again, these prophecies unfold over a period of time
and that the "day for a year principle"
is a measuring stick for these prophecies,
the issue is, during the Protestant Reformation,
most Protestants were using the 1,260-year Prophecy
to point to the Papacy as the fulfillment of this prophecy,
so they had a Council... because they were like,
"What are we going to do, we've got to do something
because people are leaving in droves... "
well, guess what they did?
James: You were saying the Papacy had a Council...
Ivor: Yes, Council of Trent, okay
and in this Council,
they decided to come up with two new schools of prophecy,
prophetic interpretation,
one was called Preterism... one was called Futurism...
both these schools of prophecy changed "times"
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: So remember Daniel 7:25 says,
"this power will think to change times and laws"
now we usually talk about the Sabbath being changed
but "times... " wait a minute...
so they're going to attempt to change time prophecy to do what?
Throw you off from the correct interpretation
so you don't know where you are... or what time it is...
so if you don't have the right time, you're off...
Yvonne: Right...
Ivor: You're lost... location, time, location, time,
so these two schools of prophecy,
Preterism... it's all in the past,
Futurism... it's all in the future...
couldn't possibly be the Papacy,
it's in the future, or it's in the past,
it was designed to throw one off
from the true prophetic interpretation, okay,
so, understanding this, we need to realize, okay,
"I need to know what time it is"
the 70 weeks, the 1,260 and 2,300
are crucial to understanding prophecy
so let me show you just a couple of examples,
we talked about this a little bit earlier...
in our last program,
the life of Christ, okay,
is a snapshot of the life of the church,
we are to follow His example, okay,
"these are they that follow the lamb withersoever He goes... "
so look, just as Christ was born,
you have the birth of the early church,
just as Christ was baptized,
you have the baptism of the early church... Day of Pentecost
after Christ was baptized, where does he go?
Oh, by-the-way, the birth and baptism of Christ,
points us to the 70-week Prophecy... right?
the 70-week prophecy points to the birth of Christ,
so, after this... His birth and baptism,
you then have Christ going into the wilderness.
Yvonne: Right...
Ivor: Wait a minute... that points me to the 1,260...
when the church goes into the wilderness, right?
When Jesus comes out of the wilderness,
this is amazing! one of the first things He does
after coming out of the wilderness,
He goes to a wedding feast and then He cleanses the Temple,
so remember, the 1,260 brings us down to 1798, right?
then when Jesus comes out of the wilderness,
it would reflect the church
also coming out of the wilderness after 1798
and then what does He do? He cleanses the temple,
the prophecy of the 2,300 days
point's us to the cleansing of the temple.
And also, He ordained...
not ordained but He calls His disciples,
so when the church comes out of the wilderness,
God calls His people out of all these churches
to start this remnant that we call, "The Remnant Movement,"
"The Last-day Movement" "The Church of God. "
Absolutely, so... so this force is the 2,300
and by-the-way, the Jews said to Him,
"Forty and six years we've been building this temple,
will you raise it up again in three days?"
If you take 46 years, and add it to 1,798
you come to 1844, that's just crazy...
that's just crazy!
So, after that, what do you have Jesus doing?
He's preaching, teaching and healing,
what is God's church doing at the end of time?
Preaching, teaching, healing,
then, He gets persecuted because of Sabbath,
what's going to happen to the church at the end-time?
The very same thing, okay,
then He goes through His Gethsemane experience,
and then death, burial and resurrection,
death decree... death, burial and resurrection,
so we find in the life of Christ this 70... 1,260... 2,300...
we find the same thing in the Book of Revelation,
in fact, if you look at this, you know what Jesus said,
"if you have ought against your brother, go to him...
and if he won't hear, take two witnesses,
if he won't hear it, take it to the church... "
70 weeks, Christ had been with His church,
He comes to them Himself, they reject Him,
so guess what He does, He sends two witnesses...
1,260-year Prophecy, and what happened?
they reject those two witnesses, so what next?
Okay, I'm going to bring it to my church... 1844...
if they don't hear the church, that's it,
this process of 70... 1,260... 2,300...
is found all throughout the Scriptures...
And by-the-way, in that thing... I mean, in that story...
in Matthew 18... the context of that...
Peter says, "How often shall we forgive... seven times?"
And Jesus says, "Seventy times seven... "
He's referring right back to that prophecy...
see the... the Bible is profound
and the lessons here are deep
and the layers are just intimate and God is the author
and there's just beautiful pictures that just flow...
So I'm going to share this last point,
I know we're running out of time, but,
so taking that understanding,
we should be able to go anywhere in the Scripture...
in the Book of Revelation and we should be looking,
"Where am I? Am I in the 70...
am I in the 1,260? or am I in the 2,300?"
James: Post 1844...
Ivor: Post 1844, if you look in Revelation 12,
you'll find all three prophecies there,
first you have the birth of Christ,
what is that? what time?
James: That's 70 weeks... Ivor: 70 weeks,
then we have the woman going into the wilderness,
what is that?
James: 1,260... Ivor: 1,260...
then you have the dragon going to make war with the remnant,
"who keep the commandments of God,"
what is that? James: Post 1844...
Ivor: 2,300... and here's what's amazing, James,
after Revelation 12,
the 70-week Prophecy... falls off the scene,
you're only now dealing with 2,300-Day Prophecy
and 1,260... James: And post-1844...
Ivor: before Revelation 12,
you have 70 weeks... 1,260... 2,300...
after Revelation 12, you have only 2,300...
James: Yeah, which just lines up perfectly
with the principles we've been learning.
Ivor: Absolutely...
James: Primarily pre- primarily post 1844...
you divide it... and another thing that's really interesting,
if you look at the gospels, each one of them has a chapter
that is dedicated to prophecy, Matthew 24, Mark 13, Luke 21,
John doesn't... because John...
God led him to write the Book of Revelation,
but each one of them have a chapter dedicated to prophecy,
and each of those chapters talks the 70-week part,
the 1,260 part and the end of time,
each one of them breaks up those sections, okay...
Ivor: Absolutely, absolutely.
James: And we don't... we're not going to get into details
because we are running out of time,
but here's one point that I wanted to make,
Jesus... after he gives the prophetic declaration,
in Matthew 24... He gives a parable in Matthew 25,
about the ten virgins,
five were wise, five were foolish
and the foolish virgins missed the time,
they missed the time
they were studying their Bibles,
they were looking at it but they missed the time,
and the bridegroom came and went and they were thinking,
"no... this is going to be... at some future time,
this is going to be at some future time," they weren't ready
and they were so wrapped up in the world that they weren't...
and that's the mistake we can make with Bible Prophecy,
is to allow the world to interpret it for us
and to be so wrapped up in events
that we miss what God has actually declared
and what He's actually saying.
Yvonne: Yes... yes... yes.
James: Okay, we are almost out of time,
we want to, I think, remind us
and those who are watching
that we are interested in answering questions,
we're covering some good material here
the table is being set
and there's one course after another...
one course after another,
we haven't even gotten to dessert yet,
though we did take a little taste of it
when we talked about the Bible
but we want to answer questions and they can...
those questions can be sent in to...
Yvonne: sss as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs,
sss@3... the number 3ABN.org
SSS@3ABN.ORG
send in your questions and we will attempt to answer them.
Yvonne: Video questions.
James: Video questions, we want video questions.
Yvonne: We want video questions,
that will make it even more interesting.
James: Yvonne, close out for us.
Yvonne: Sure, "Father God, thank you so much
for this study and the richness of your Word, Lord,
we can just mine the depths of your Word
and just get all of these gems,
so thank you so much and continue to bless us
and keep us Lord
and help us to be focused on you and not distracted,
we pray in Jesus' name... amen.
All: Amen, amen.