Well, it's not that we couldn't spend more time on Revelation 1
but we are going to move on,
we've laid a good foundation, we've looked at principles
and we connected to the Book of Daniel,
we've understood some of the themes
and I think that we have the tools we need
to start our journey
right into this first epic of the seven churches,
so we're going to look at the seven churches
or at least begin the seven churches' journey,
we're going to look at the first church
we'll just move through... again...
we don't have an agenda so we can move through this
as fast or as slow as the Holy Spirit leads
so it's understandable.
So, we'll start with the first church which is Ephesus,
we'll read the verses and we'll start to break down
the timeframe to figure out where we are,
what this message means in the context of history
and also, what it means to us today which, you know,
there's the principle there of idealism
that allows the principles to be applicable to us
even right now
and I think we're going to get some good stuff here
out of the seven churches, it's a beautiful picture so
let's start with a word of prayer,
Ivor, you want to lead us off?
Sure, "Heavenly Father,
we want to ask that you would bless our study
as we open the Word once again, give us insight Lord,
anoint our eyes that we may be able to see the things
that you desire us to see,
we thank you Lord for caring and answering,
we ask this in Jesus' name, amen.
All: Amen...
Now I wanted us to pick up on the theme, the love theme,
because love is a huge theme here... in the first church,
they lost their first love is what is said about them
but before we get into the first church,
we have a picture of Jesus standing among the candlesticks
and they're identified
and we did this in the earlier session,
they're identified in verse 20 as the churches
and so, here's the picture and I call this... a prelude of hope
but I want us to pick up this picture with an eye on romance,
okay, here is the picture
of Jesus staying among these churches,
the churches have problems, they have issues,
they have baggage,
you know, relationships have baggage,
they have baggage
and the thing that I love about this picture
is that even though they have issues
and they have baggage and they have problems,
Jesus is with them... All: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: Jesus is with them,
now, what's really significant is...
as we look through these churches,
we're going to find that there are two churches
that have nothing negative said about them,
the first one is Smyrna,
which is going to be the second church in our order,
and the next church, the second church
that has nothing bad said about it is Philadelphia,
the church of brotherly love,
all the other churches,
Jesus affirms and then He corrects,
he affirms, he corrects, which, by-the-way,
marriage... relationships... start with the positive
affirm your wife, affirm your husband,
affirm your children before you correct,
He affirms and He corrects, Jesus was the Master
and He knows that they've got issues
before He gets to the issues, He pictures Himself among them.
"I'm with you, I'm with you... "
now, He could have pictured himself,
just with two of the churches,
he could have just pictured Himself...
as with Smyrna and Philadelphia
and He could have had this attitude of,
"When you other five churches get your act together,
when you listen to what I have to say,
and when you follow my rebukes
you can join our little group over here...
we've arrived and you can join us"
but He doesn't do that, see, Jesus meets us where we are
and this is the message of the Book of Revelation.
Jesus meets us where we are, He knows our baggage,
He knows our struggles, He knows our weaknesses,
we see this in the gospels, the woman at the well,
in the middle of the afternoon
because that's when no one else would be there
and this woman didn't want to be
seen or talked to by anyone else,
Jesus... meets... He knows her life history,
He knows everything about her
and He tells her that He knows everything about her
but the way that He relates to her
and the way that He communicates to her,
tells her that he cares about her and loves her
and she now is free from all that insecurity,
all that history... that she's free to run into town and say,
"Come and meet a man that told me everything
I ever did wrong. "
Isn't this the Messiah?
Okay, that's the picture that
Revelation is giving us of Jesus Christ.
He knows all the problems we have, but He's still with us,
ahead of time, He shows us that.
I want to add something there, in Revelation chapter 1
Jesus is described as having on a golden girdle
and that is very key because
that description goes back to the Old Testament
when the High Priest, in fact, is found...
it's Exodus 28 verse 4
and it describes the garments of the High Priest
that he was supposed to put on, the verse ends with these words,
"that He may minister unto me in the Priest's office"
so when we see Jesus with these garments on,
it's signifying that He has now entered into His priestly work,
part of that priestly... of course, that's going to be,
after His resurrection, He's ascended,
so the vision here of the churches
begins with Christ beginning His work of ministry of intercession
but the nice thing about this is...
that He wears a Breastplate, right, with the...
with the names of the children of Israel on it
meaning what? He's bearing them on His heart
so that picture of Christ carrying us,
Christ caring for us, Christ loving us
is what comes before...
"before I begin to... like... tell you about yourself,
let me just let you know that I have you in my heart... "
Yvonne: Yes... James: That I'm with you.
Ivor: I'm with you. James: I'm standing with you.
Ivor: Exactly, exactly.
James: I got your back... Ivor: I got your back.
James: This is the picture, in fact, we see the same picture
now, again, Revelation is simply picking up
this story of the Bible,
so, Ivor, went to the Old Testament?
The Priest had the breastplate,
in the New Testament we see here,
He's among the candlesticks, so how do we see this
illustrated in the life of Christ?
Do you remember when Christ was getting ready
to go to the cross, He was in the garden...
He was in the Upper Room with the disciples,
He was getting ready to go to the Garden of Gethsemane
and then the cross and He told His disciples that
what they were going to do was they were going to betray Him,
every single one of them, even Peter denied, "I won't... "
"No, you're going to...
you'll be the worst... okay, other than Judas... "
but then He said this, He said, "But after I am risen,
I'm going to go before you to Galilee... "
now think about that, Jesus says,
"You're going to forsake me but I'm not going to forsake you,
you're going to run from me but I'm not going to run from you
you're going to deny me but I'm not going to deny you. "
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: See this is the picture of the gospel,
this is the picture in Revelation,
Jesus is with us in spite of our failures, our faults,
in spite of our abandonment of Him,
He sticks it out with us
and that's the love that draws us...
that's the love that draws us.
Ivor: We love Him because He first loved us. "
James: And so, this picture is vital as we open up the churches
because what's going to happen is we're going to look at those
churches and we're going to see history...
the first church is going to show us the history
of the early... of the early apostolic age
but we're also going to see ourselves.
We're going to see ourselves, We're going to see ourselves...
and we're going to think, "Wow! I thought... "
Okay, let's just start with the church of Ephesus,
Jason, read for us the first what is it, seven, five, six...
seven verses...
Okay, "Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write;
These things saith he that holdeth
the seven stars in his right hand,
who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks;
I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience,
and how thou canst not bear them which are evil:
and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles,
and are not, and hast found them liars:
And hast borne, and hast patience,
and for my name's sake hast laboured,
and hast not fainted.
Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee,
because thou hast left thy first love.
Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent,
and do the first works;
or else I will come unto thee quickly,
and will remove thy candlestick out of his place,
except thou repent.
But this thou hast,
that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes,
which I also hate.
He that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith unto the churches;
To him that overcometh
will I give to eat of the tree of life,
which is in the midst of the paradise of God. "
So, look at this and understand how it relates to us,
"I know your works... your labor, your patience,
you can't bear those that are evil,
you tried them which say they're apostles and they're not
and you found them liars, you've borne, you had patience
for my name's sake you have labored
and you haven't fainted... "
I mean, who among us
would not like to have that said about them?
Who? That's just a pedigree right there,
Jesus pouring it on, this is all just good stuff
and this describes the experience of the early church,
the early Apostolic church.
So we're starting in Christ's time,
we're starting in the Apostolic age
with this... with this... what was the word again?
This sequence of Genesis chapters 1 and 2,
we described the sequence of seven.
Ivor: Creation... yeah... one through seven... the cycle.
James: The cycle... the cycle of seven,
we're starting... right here,
we're starting with the Apostolic age
with the cycle of seven
and it's going to take us all the way down to the very end,
the second coming of Jesus, time of the judgment, post 1844,
the first church... Apostolic Church...
this describes... they were full of faith
and patience and labor
and they tried those that said they were apostles
and they're not they found them liars
and they had labored even more, they had more patience
but... what happened?
There was something that took place in that early church,
something that started to slip in their relationship
and it can happen with all of us,
when I first came to Jesus, I had nothing to offer Him,
I was just out of the world, fresh out of the world,
the words of that hymn,
"Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling"
I had nothing to offer Him and so, I was just...
I had this first love experience,
I mean, I was just on fire because Jesus had forgiven me,
He accepted me and I just wanted to live for Him
because I just... all this guilt was gone,
I was like, "Yes... " but then you know after a few months
I started... I learned about the Sabbath,
I started going to church on the right day,
I learned about tithe... and starting paying my tithe...
learned about the Ten Commandments,
and just started following all the principles of the Bible
and studying and... a few months go by...
I am doing this and I am doing this...
and I've labored and I've got patience and I've got faith
and I've tried those and said, "they're apostles,"
I was going to a lot of different churches actually,
not just the Adventist Church
and so I was trying the different doctrines
to see which one was true, so now, well... now...
I've little bit more of a pedigree there...
I have a little bit more going on,
I guess what I'm trying to say is, "The greatest enemy
of our love for Christ are our works for Christ...
the greatest enemy of our love for Christ
is our works for Christ... "
okay, I'm actually quoting Oswald Chambers on that one
but it's true...
the more we do... the greater the danger
that we would start... slip our...
slip from our full confidence, full trust,
full weight on Christ to our works, just a little bit,
we're just going to lean this way just a little bit.
Ivor: Self righteousness... James: Self righteousness.
Ivor: Let me throw something in here,
we talk about the cycle of one through seven
and how the first church is the beginning
so it's interesting that...
that's the very thing that happened in the beginning,
Adam and Eve were created in perfection,
they were like... this is like... first love
but something happens
that causes them to lose that first love,
they lost that first love, they fell from their position
just like we're reading about this first church
and what happens?
Satan came in and told them,
"You can be righteous by yourself,
you don't need God in order to be righteous,
you can know 'good and evil' for yourself,"
and so we're seeing here... this reflects...
almost like this repetition of history
between the first church and what happened with Adam and Eve,
and it's interesting because guess what?
What does He say is the reward for this first church?
James: Eat of the Tree of Life.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: It points us right back to the Tree...
why is He pointing our mind back to the Garden?
could He be trying to tell us, "Listen, I want you to remember
how mankind got into this situation in the first place,
look if you're faithful,
I'm not going to cut you off
like I had to do with Adam and Eve from the Tree of Life,
if you're faithful and don't make the same mistake
of self-righteousness, 'I can be like God... '"
James: Sewing fig leaves together...
Ivor: "Sewing fig leaves together...
right, then... I'll give you the Tree of Life. "
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: Powerful, good stuff because when we see this,
when we see the description here, we apply it to us,
we can apply... we're very practical on applying this
but we know it's the early church,
it... it... probably... we're going to look at this
as the early church period probably to about 100 A.D.
Paul, as he begins to pass from the scene
and later John as he begins he begins to pass from the scene...
both of them are warning the church
of the apostasy that's coming in,
of people that want the "preeminence," John says,
of those that are going to come up among you
to draw disciples after themselves,
now that is the spirit of Antichrist
and sometimes we think about Antichrist
as one religious system and one religious person,
no, John says, "There are many Antichrists... "
"Anti" does not necessarily mean against...
it also means "in the place of"
"in the place of," in other words...
we are in danger of putting ourselves
in the place that Christ should occupy
in the minds and hearts of other people
and this is where we have to be very careful,
even here, right now, at this table,
we have to point people to Jesus,
we have to point people to the Word,
we can't be pointing people to our opinions, to our pedigree
to what it is that we have to offer,
the whole point of this
is to open up the Word of God and point people to Jesus
because He's the only one that can really restore
and so, about 100 A.D. and onward...
there's this transition that starts taking place
in the early churches,
the first Apostles, Disciples... passed from the scene,
John passes from the scene...
and he's warning the church of what's going to come,
there's some heavy persecution
and heavy persecution will take us into the next church
and that's followed by some compromise that takes place
and so we see this beginning right here
the doctors of doctrine that's coming in...
the doctrine of Nicolaitanes that is causing compromise
in the early church period.
Yeah, we should touch on that... on Nicolaitanes
do you have a question?
I did... I just want to... well, it's more of a comment...
in verse 4, when you think about...
when you think about a love relationship,
and you think about how that... the first love...
that's your first love, that's so important to you
and how you're going to nurture it
and how you're going to spend time with it
and how you're going to get engaged in it,
then, Jesus is saying, "You've left your first love,"
again, this book of love, this is the romantic thing here,
you are walking away
from our relationship...
I like this, I think we need to build on this
just a little bit here because
what this is saying to us is,
"You can have all the doctrines right,
you can figure out who the Nicolaitanes are
and you can figure out who...
you can try those and say they're possibly not...
you can find them liars,
you can have all that stuff there
but if you don't have that relationship with Jesus Christ,
it's a "not" the candlestick's gone...
the candlestick's gone,
it's all about that relationship.
Ivor: The fire has died... James: Hmmm... hmmm...
Yvonne: Oh, taking away the candlestick
is taking away the... come on now...
taking away the fire... Ivor and Yvonne do a fist bump.
Yeah, the fire...
Ivor: Yeah, the fire is gone... the love is gone...
because that's what the book of Song of Solomon actually
equates or tells us that fire is a symbol of love.
"Love is like a fire that cannot be quenched"
so when that fire goes out, what God is saying is that...
He's not saying, "I've lost my love for you... "
He's saying, "You have lost your love for me"
James: But you can rekindle the fire.
Ivor: You can rekindle the fire. Yvonne: Come on... come on...
we can even call the Program, "Rekindle the Flame. "
Yvonne: "Rekindle the Flame!" I love it...
James: That's this one right there that's enough.
Yvonne: Yeah... yeah...
Ivor: So, it's interesting that we can even look back and see
that this very thing happened with Lucifer,
he was created perfect and righteous
but he ended up falling, right? from his place
because he left his first love,
so this is something that we see
reflecting many different levels
even though it's applicable to the church
in this particular time period we can see the principle
spilling out into other areas of the Plan of Salvation
and so, where are we right now?
we are... this first church...
is revolving around the 70-week prophecy, right?
the fulfillment of that prophecy...
the first church and where is our location?
we're in the Holy Place, right,
so that's just important to understand
as we move forward but about the Nicolaitanes,
if you look down in verse... chapter 2...
and look down in verse 14... it says,
"But I have a few things against thee,
because thou hast there them... "
now this is speaking about the second church,
we're not going there yet
but we're looking at this... for the first church...
"thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam,
who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block
before the children of Israel,
to eat things sacrificed unto idols,
and to commit fornication.
So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine
of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate. "
So the doctrine of the Nicolaitane... whatever that was
was very similar to the doctrine of Balaam,
whatever Balaam was doing,
and what Balaam was doing...
Balaam was "supposedly" a prophet of God
but he was working against the cause of God.
Okay, so, this principle of compromise,
when you stand for God, you're supposed to stand for God
but this principle of compromise in the name of the Lord,
that's what's going on in the early church,
right? the Nicolaitans are teaching some kind of doctrine
in which compromise...
"Hey, hey, we're for God...
we're for God, you know we're for God... "
but there's beginning to be compromise
coming into the church.
This is, I think, a pretty interesting point...
is that Paul
who wrote the epistles...
he also wrote, "To seven churches... "
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: Interesting... the seven is epistles to other churches,
Romans, Corinth, Ephesians, Galatians,
Colossians, Philippians... and Thessalonians, okay.
So seven churches... several different letters
but seven churches.
Ivor: Now John's letters to the seven churches,
come after Paul's letters to the seven churches
but if you read Paul's letters to the seven churches,
guess what he's doing?
He's warning against apostasy to come,
2nd Thessalonians... "a man of sin is going to arrive,"
Galatians... "Let no one
deceive you and introduce to you another gospel"
Colossians... "be aware of the worship of angels"
Corinthians... "all the... "
That's right, all these things, these points...
it's as if Paul was warning,
"Listen, something's coming guys
and you guys are letting something come up in the church,
if you don't address this... "
so when John is writing, he's saying,
"Look, these things... they're beginning to occur now,
'You've lost your first love' these things...
and as a result, you're going to see the man of sin rise,
you're going to see this teaching
where we pray to angels instead of...
you're going to see another gospel being introduced
that is not the one that Christ spoke...
all this is a result of leaving your first love described here
in the Book of... in the first church. "
Yvonne: Wow...
That is really powerful because Paul is more explicit about
specific aspects of what that false teaching was...
or what those false teachings were... he identifies them
in a number of different places like in Galatians
and he talks about specifically what they were doing
and the most important thing... the most important solution
as you said, Ivor, the most important solution
to what they were doing was to reconnect with Jesus,
they were being taught about another Jesus,
they were receiving another gospel,
they were receiving another spirit
and just like in Thessalonians...
he says in 2nd Corinthians that the devil would come
with ministers of righteousness
and as an angel of light and by-the-way,
Lucifer was a God-given name and it means "Light bearer"
so you've got the light, the light, the light
and that light going out... and Lucifer is the one
who is trying to put out the light,
he's trying to quench the light.
Ivor: The love...
James: The love... the love... the love...
and the other thing that's interesting is
the picture that Jesus has here in the candlesticks
is Him tending the lights... tending the lights.
Ivor: Yeah, keep the love burning.
James: Yeah and in Matthew 25... the ten virgins...
they're trimming their wicks so the light can burn brighter
and they're needing that extra oil
to be added so the light can burn brighter.
Ivor: So the five foolish virgins
actually run out of love...
James: Yes, Holy Spirit love...
Yvonne: Hmmm... that is so deep.
Ivor: Yeah, they burn out.
James: And this is all
"a relational... " this is what the
Book of Revelation is, it's relational.
Yvonne: And I think that's really what the focus,
our focus... so often, in our church
we get... we start majoring in minor,
you get pulled into a whole other way of thought
which is legalism and so often in many other churches,
you get pulled into... anything goes...
"I can do whatever I want... "
I did a little research on the Nicolaitanes
and... and the word... the word that was involved was
"Antinomianism" and it really is like "cheap grace"
now, grace is never cheap but the whole idea of
"you can kind of do whatever you want... "
and giving it... you kind of have permission
to do whatever you want...
this is showing... and we have to really apply this to us,
how are we relating to our first love?
Have we gotten sidetracked from our first love
that we're just so busy doing the work of the Lord,
or we're so busy doing whatever we're doing,
whatever it is... that we've lost our first love
and we give excuses for it like the Nicolaitanes.
So think about... whenever you start a relationship,
whether it was, okay,
the person that you ended up marrying right?
before you got married and you were dating that person,
courting that person... whatever...
there was that fire there
and there was that love
and "Ah man, I can't wait to be with this person
and I love spending time with them"
and then imagine the feeling, like, especially as a man,
to know that the woman that you love
is now looking elsewhere, you know what I'm saying?
That feeling of, "What are you doing?"
"Why are you doing this thing?"
You're not like... "Get out of here... "
you're just like... "Please... "
but I want you to think... just take a moment and think
what is Jesus thinking as He feels His Bride-to-be
beginning to lose her... her love... and wane...
and look at this letter to the first church
that's Christ saying, almost with tears saying,
"Please, don't do... don't leave me...
don't leave me... "
because that's what Satan is trying to do...
he's trying to say, "Look, there's better over here"
Christ is saying, "What do I need to do?
no, no, no, not what I need to do...
look at what I have done, look back at the cross,
look back at the 70-Week Prophecy
and look at what I did for you
as a fulfillment of that prophecy,
I came and died for you, I love you... this much...
remember me, remember what I've done for you
and please come back to your first love. "
Yvonne: Hmmm... beautiful.
James: One of the verses in Jude
and this Book is just before the Book of Revelation
that I think it really nails what Yvonne was saying also
in relation to the doctrines of Nicolaitanes
is Jude... and I don't say chapter
because Jude is one Book, there are no chapters in here
so Jude verse 4, "For there are certain men
crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained
to this condemnation, ungodly men,
turning the grace of our God into a license for sin,
lasciviousness,
and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ. "
I say "a license for sin"
because that's the modern NIV translation, modern translation.
"Sin... " we're told in 1st John chapter 3 verse 4,
is "transgression of the Law,"
these men are coming into the church
and they're taking the grace of God
and turning it into a license to transgress God's Law
and to know the man of sin
and so Jude is warning the same thing
and he... this is also a prophetic chapter if you will,
talking about the second coming, the third coming et cetera,
so, we have this picture that takes place here
that fits perfectly with the early church
and what was taking place in the history of the early church,
we have principles that apply to us today
and that is... the application of those principles to us
is called idealism,
taking the history and working out the principles
and applying it to our lives today
and that's what we see taking place in this,
again, we're out of time but we want to remind our Viewers
that they can send in their questions in the form of video.
Yvonne: Yeah, yeah...
Jason: sss@3abn. org
James: sss@3abn. org
and we want to answer some of those video questions,
the reason why it's video is because we want to have
their beautiful mugs involved in the program,
we want to encourage and involve them, so,
all right, Jason, close us out
with a word of prayer, would you?
Jason: Sure, "Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you so much for being with us
as we study the Word today
and please be with the people at home
and help them to retain the information that was discussed,
thank you so much for designing such an intricate...
but yet... an intricate Word but yet
making it understandable to us
thank you for all the many blessings
that you bestow upon us and for giving us a mind to
be able to study, discern and retain the information
in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
All: Amen...