Well, we are continuing our study on the Book of Revelation,
we've actually entered into the churches,
we've moved past chapter one, we've laid the foundation
and we're in the Seven Churches,
Revelation chapter 2 is where it begins,
we began though by looking at Christ among the churches,
the fact that Christ is among all seven churches
even though five of them have major problems,
two of them are... you know... doing pretty good,
but five of them have major problems,
reminded us of the grace of God, of the love of God...
the unconditional love of God,
we looked at some illustrations of that in the Bible,
with the woman at the well and with the disciples
who forsook Christ even though He would not forsake them
and we recognize that
one of the preeminent foundational truths
of the gospel is that God is with us
even though we've forsaken Him,
that when we ate of the
Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil,
we were hiding from God in the Garden...
He came looking for us,
we had changed but He hadn't changed,
"I'm your Lord your God, I change not...
and therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed"
and this is the picture that Revelation's presenting to us,
we look at the church in Ephesus
and we understood to be the early Apostolic age
and we see in that church
a group of people who are on fire for Jesus
and they've got faith, they've got love,
they've got works, they've got patience,
they tried those and say they're apostles... they're not...
we found them liars and got more faith
and more love but they've lost what...?
All: Their first love... James: Their first love,
they've lost their first love and without that,
all the other stuff is meaningless
and so, we identified this as the apostolic church
in the Historicist's understanding of prophecy
but we also recognize as a message for us today
and so we want to go from there now,
we want to move into the next church
which is the church of Smyrna,
and we want to identify some of the characteristics here
historically and then look at how it applies to us today.
Remembering where we are... time and location...
keeping those two things in mind,
what time period are we in?
Are we looking at one of the three time prophecies?
70 weeks... 1,260... or the 2,300...
and... where in the Sanctuary are we located
and we've already determined
that we are located in the Holy Place
at this time which means pre-1844, right.
Definitely, and we're going to be moving now
from the 70-week prophecy,
we're going to be moving into that 1,260-day period
and we'll identify this, okay,
so we should start with a word of prayer... always...
and Jason, would you like to pray for us?
All right... "Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you so much for blessing us with another day of life
and another opportunity to study your Word,
now as we study your Word, please lead, guide and direct us
in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: Amen...
So let's start in verse...
let me just get my glasses on here...
verse 8, Yvonne, would you like to read for us,
verses 8, all the way...
just let's read all the verses all the way through to verse 11?
Sure, "And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write;
These things saith the first and the last,
which was dead, and is alive;
I know thy works, and tribulation and poverty
but thou art rich, and I know the blasphemy of them
which say they are Jews, and are not,
but are the synagogue of Satan.
Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer:
behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison,
that ye may be tried:
and ye shall have tribulation ten days:
be thou faithful unto death,
and I will give thee a crown of life.
He that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith unto the churches;
He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. "
All right, it's short and sweet, one, two, three, four verses...
and basically this church is the first church
that we're going to read about of two churches in the seven
that have nothing said against it, nothing negative,
it's all affirmative and the reason for that is
because we're going to find that in the Bible,
Old and New Testament...
that when God's people undergo heavy persecution,
it purifies the church,
so the two characteristics of the churches
that have nothing against them is,
persecution and love,
when God's church is filled with love,
now, Ephesus has lost it's first love,
it's losing it's first love and yet the church in Philadelphia
has that... that love... and the church in Smyrna...
this church right here is undergoing heavy persecution,
that purifies the church
so what we have here... is we have four verses that describe
the condition of the church, the Christian church
during a period of time that we're going to label
from about a 100 A.D. to about 313 A.D.
313 A.D. ends the
heavy persecution of the pagan Roman Emperor Diocletian
and makes a transition to Constantine
and a drastic change takes place in the church under Constantine,
you can read a little bit about that in the prophetic book
of Daniel chapter 11,
where this transition takes place
and the church gets back
all of the things that were taken from it
under the Diocletian rule but going back here,
I just want to look at this... this first... this first section
"I know thy works and thy poverty and yet thou art rich"
how can you be in poverty and yet be rich?
What is that "wealth" that they have?
Yvonne: It has to be the knowledge of Jesus... right?
James: Yeah.
Yvonne: They might... they have...
might be broke finally...
they might be broke but they're not poor.
James: And I love that... that's basically what...
doesn't James say something about that...
let me just look here, he talks about how
we are rich in faith, I'm looking for the verse
I have it marked here, James chapter 2 verse 5...
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: "Hearken, my beloved brethren,
Hath not God chosen
the poor of this world rich in faith... "
"the poor of this world... rich in faith... "
okay, I just want to make this point,
the Book of Revelation... we've said this before
it's worth repeating,
the Book of Revelation is
boring from the rest of the Bible,
it's not off on an island by itself,
it's not a book that should be
separate from the rest of the cannon,
it is a summation of the rest of the Bible
and so when we see this phrase here,
"I know that your... your poverty but you're rich...
I know your poverty...
it's borne from the Book of James,
it's borne from the picture that God has given us
which is... and that connection is vital
because that helps us to interpret the book,
what does it mean? "You're poor and yet you're rich"
well, James tells what it means.
Jesus says, "Blessed are the poor in spirit
for theirs is the kingdom of God"
so, this... this... poverty and yet richness,
there's persecution and yet faith
is being presented here in this period
and that's what they're going through...
this time period where
Rome began to heavily persecute the Christian church
beginning about 195 A.D. John is sent out of Patmos
where he, of course, receives the Revelation
but then you have this persecution of Rome
trying to destroy and wipe out Israel,
what is significant about that
is that there was another persecution
in the Old Testament
where someone tried to wipe out Israel...
tried to basically destroy
and just really keep down the children of Israel
and that was Pharaoh during the time of...
the Children of Israel being in Egypt,
what's happening is, you have the first church
which was perfect
and then fell from its first love
and we already said, "Wow! that kind of reminds us of
the beginning of creation of mankind...
perfect but then fell in Creation"
and then that's Genesis, the next book is Exodus,
where we now have this spirit of persecution
and we're looking at church one and two, we're going,
"Wow, this is like history repeating itself... "
now will that pattern hold out for the rest of the churches?
We'll find out... but what we see so far
is look, "This history is almost like it's being repeated...
the things that happened to Old Testament...
the Old Testament people of God looks like it's being repeated
in the history of Spiritual Israel,
so they're being persecuted but God is telling them,
"Listen, be faithful even in this persecution
and going back to the theme of the Book of Revelation
as a love story, what I see happening here,
is that... it's almost like Satan's saying,
"Yeah, you love Jesus?
All right, well let's see how much you love Jesus,
let's see how much you love Jesus
when they put you in the Coliseums with the lions,
let's see how much you love... " and... I mean... think about it,
Jesus is here looking at His church
during this period of time stand faithful...
rathering to suffer with lions and fire and...
now, what that must do to His heart?
How can He have something to say against this church?
It's a demonstration of the love of the church during this period
for their... for that husband...
Two things here...
Ivor, just building on what you said,
one of them is in Ecclesiastes,
and I just wanted to bring this out
so that we can all see it,
because it is a Biblical principle,
"The thing that has been, is that which shall be... "
verse 9 of Ecclesiastes 1,
"and that which is done is that which shall be done:
and there is no new thing under the sun.
Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new?
it hath been already of old time,
which was before us. "
In other words, "Yes, we're seeing these...
this repeat principle over and over again,
why? because human nature is the same,
human beings are the same,
the history of the Bible is the history of human nature,
it's the history of us,
yes, there's some variations here and there
and sometimes people say,
"Well, how come God selected
that history and that history... and that history,
there's a lot more history in the world... "
well, because, He just pulled out
some history that was basically illustrative...
illustrating the history of all of us,
here it is and He stepped into that history
to show us how He can change the course of our history
and make us... bring us back
to the image in which we were created.
And one thing we can also see is that
Satan doesn't change either, so we can look and say,
"Okay, well, if we can figure out what it is that Satan did
in the Old Testament,
and how he attacked the people of God in the Old Testament,
then ah... we're going to have a better idea
of what he's trying to do in the Book of Revelation
and in the New Testament. "
So God is showing us, that's why He says that...
that the things that were written for Israel,
are written for our admonition
upon whom the ends of the world are come.
So, let us take heed lest our promise being left us
we should fail to enter into it
because of the same mistakes that they made in the past.
And then the other thing here I think that's significant
in... along the lines of what we're talking about is
in verse 9 it says, "Okay, I know thy works,
thy tribulation, thy poverty, but thou art rich,
I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews,
and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan. "
So, part of the reason why this persecution is taking place is
because it is actually separating
those who are and those who aren't...
those who are named and those who aren't.
This phrase, "those that say they're Jews,"
we need to understand that in the spiritual sense,
at this point in time, the church has settled in,
and the new Christian church has settled in with...
to the fact that they are spiritual Jews...
that they are spiritual Israel,
and we know that from a couple of verses,
one of them is found in Romans chapter 2 verses 28 and 29
and maybe Jason, would you like to read those verses for us?
Romans 2:28 and 29...
Jason: I'm not there yet.
James: That's okay... we'll wait... with all patience.
Waiting for Jason to find the verse.
Jason: Let's see here... all right...
"For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly;
neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:
But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly:
and circumcision is that of the heart,
in the spirit, and not in the letter;
whose praise is not of men, but of God. "
Okay, so here Paul is identifying who Jews really are,
it's no longer the literal Jews and the literal circumcision,
Jews are those who are circumcised in the heart
and so when it says in Revelation and this is now...
we're in the second century, third century,
it says in Revelation chapter 2 and verse 9,
"I know those who say they are Jews... "
it's not talking about literal Jews,
it's talking about those who say they're spiritual Jews,
who say they're circumcised in the heart,
who say that they're Abraham's seed,
who say they're part of the Christian church,
but they are of the synagogue of Satan,
"don't worry... I know who they are...
this persecution you're going through right now
is going to show who those people are
because those who are not truly a 100 percent in the heart
converted to Christ
and dedicated to Him aren't going to survive through this,
they're going to compromise" and that's what takes place
as we follow in the next church
that's what's going to take place.
And when you think about it... when the Children of Israel,
the Jews, left out of Egypt,
out of persecution, there was a separating...
there were those who weren't "Jews" in name
but you see a lot of separation happening...
James: Mixed multitude...
Ivor: Mixed multitude,
those who are claiming to be of God
but stirring up rebellion and doing these kinds of things
so again we see that history being laid out
and God is saying, "Look, look...
and what happened in the Old Testament
because those things are going to be
important for you to understand
in reference to what will happen at the end of time
or throughout history
or of the history of the New Testament Church. "
Now, I love this next verse and I have to say...
I really like the way, Yvonne, that you read it,
"Fear none of those things which you shall suffer:"
I love that... "behold, the devil will cast
some of you in the prison,
you will be tried;
and you will have tribulation ten days:
be thou faithful unto death,
and I will give thee a crown of life. "
We read that that way because we have experienced
some of this verse ourselves, we understand,
this verse is personal,
we're not just reading this verse as we read other verses,
we recognize that the devil is coming against us
and the devil sought to persecute us
and the devil sought to destroy our faith, our grasp,
our dependence on Christ
and he's done it through various means
and through tribulation
and the tribulation that we face today
may not be thrown into a colosseum
filled with lions who are ready to eat us,
sometimes it's just words and words can be harder to endure
than martyrdom at times, they can, you know,
"Sticks and stones may break my bones
but words will never hurt me"
that's not true,
words hurt and they go deep, especially as God restores in us
his image and we become more sensitive
because His love renews in us the feelings and emotions
that he created us to have and or that we're afraid to have
and we try to numb them with drugs and with the world
because this world is painful,
it's a painful place to be when you have feelings.
Yvonne: Yeah.
Jason: Are those ten days symbolic of anything?
The ten... all these numbers...
James: hmmm... hmmm... hmmm... hmm...
that's a good question,
it's interesting that
in the controversy
over the idea of these churches being literal churches
in John's day which is Preterism
versus them being symbolic of the church in the ages
from the Apostolic Age all the way down to Second Coming
which is Historicism, there is... there are little
evidences, if you will,
that Historicism is the one that bears sway here
and this is one of those evidences,
I mean, if John is writing a letter to these churches
and he says to Smyrna,
"You're going to suffer for ten literal days
under persecution, be faithful, I'll give you a crown of life,"
and it's like, "Ten days?
well, why are they the only church that's suffering ten...
what about Ephesus,
what about all the other churches?"
So, yes, this period of time
is one of the places
where we see the principle of "day for a year,"
so when we study this prophecy we think,
"Okay, this... if this isn't ten literal days,
then it must be ten literal years...
each day must represent a year... "
now in order for us to affirm that,
in order for that to be confirmed in our interpretation
in our understanding... to be confirmed...
our interpretation being confirmed,
we would need to find a place in history
where that actually happened where for ten years
God's church... some time after the Apostolic Age
underwent heavy persecution and we find it...
we find it from the year 303 A.D. to the year 313 A.D.
and it happened under Diocletian,
heavy persecution took place
and the church was not only persecuted
but if you remained a Christian,
your land was taken away from you,
your houses were taken away from you,
churches were taken away from you,
everything was torn away from you,
everything earthly was taken away from you,
it was heavy-duty persecution
and it was in this time... that the period of time
that the church in Smyrna was described as, I think,
going under... undergoing...
well the word Smyrna itself means, "bitter sweet myrrh"
and it's the kind of stuff that was used from embalming people
there was a lot of death, there was a lot of persecution
they had a bitter-sweet experience,
the bitterness, of course, going through the persecution,
sweet experience... being rich in faith
and having the church purified
and having nothing said against it
and I think that we as people, Christians...
that we are afraid of persecution
but at the same time,
"Fear none of those things which shall come upon you"
because I want to make a distinction
between those who say they're this...
"they are Jews" and those who aren't,
and you're going to be rich in faith,
your faith is going to grow through this time,
I remember the story years ago and this is going way back
before your time, Jason, perhaps... to the 1980s
when the USSR was a prominent power in the world,
Communism in Eastern Europe and Russia
had its iron grip on many, many people
and there were people that would get our of Russia...
they considered themselves fortunate,
there was an Adventist family that got out of Russia
and came to the United States during that time
and they considered themselves fortunate,
a few years later they decided to go back to Russia
and their conclusion was that...
"It was easier for us to be faithful to Christ in Russia
than it is for us to be faithful to Christ
here in the United States
because it was easier for us to be Christians
under that persecution than it was for us
to live a Christian life in this wealthy,
compromising environment that is the U.S... USA"
so they... they went back to Russia
and that's what we're talking about here,
sometimes we're afraid of persecution,
persecution can actually be a good thing.
Yvonne: When you think... oh sorry...
Ivor: No, no, no, you go...
When you think about...
when is it that you find yourself drawing closer to God?
Not necessarily in the good times...
but in the bad times
when you really need to reach out to Him
that's when... when you... everything is honky dory...
we tend to... we can put God on the back burner which is wrong,
but... but when you're going through it
and that's when you reach out, "God help me... "
and you're on your knees,
you're on your knees for your children
or you're on your knees for your spouse or your...
whatever it is... your job... whatever it is...
you're on your knees so that persecution...
that suffering... though we don't want it,
I found for me that the closest times
that I have with the Lord are when I'm going through...
and you don't want that, it's not like you pick that
and say, "Okay, I want to suffer now,"
no, you don't want that but when you are suffering
the only place to go is God.
You're going to find that principle
to be revealed to be true when we get to the next church,
because when things ease up and things get good,
it's human nature to begin the compromise
but looking at this reward for the church of Smyrna,
the reward is a crown of life
and it's interesting that God uses that reward
because He realizes and recognizes
what they're going through here,
He acknowledges what they're going through
and says, "Listen, even though
you're suffering death right now"
in fact it's the last verse, verse 11,
"He that has an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches;
he that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. "
So, Jesus is telling the church here,
"Even though you're suffering the first death,
don't worry about it... you're going to have a crown of life,
you're not going to experience the second death. "
The second death is... death forever,
right, there's not return from that second death
so... so, He's saying,
"Listen, what you're going through now is just a sleep,
I'm going to wake you up in the morning
I'm going to put a crown on your head... and be faithful. "
so that's the reward,
that's the encouragement He's giving to His church
in this stage, He's telling them,
"Be faithful... and don't worry about
what the devil is throwing in your face
because I'm going to give you something better. "
James: Let's build on that a little bit,
Ivor...
really the only place that the phrase, "Second death"
is used in the Bible is in the Book of Revelation,
the only place,
it's used in Revelation chapter 2
and it's also in Revelation chapter 20,
so, the reason why God did that
and it's clear in the Book of John
when you read about the story of Lazarus,
it's very clear that God identifies death
in relation to what we experience
as mortals, He identifies it as a sleep...
He identifies it as a sleep,
so, over and over again, He tells the disciples,
"Lazarus is sleeping... Lazarus is sleeping,
Lazarus is sleeping" and the disciples don't get it,
they don't get it,
"Well, if he's sleeping, he's doing good
because when you're sick... when you got a sore throat...
and you need to sleep... you need a rest... "
so, finally, Jesus says to them, "Plainly... " verse 11,
John 11 verse 11, Jesus says to them,
"Plainly... our... " excuse me...
that's not the verse I'm looking for,
it's verse 14...
"Jesus said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. "
He didn't say, "second death,"
they didn't get... that sleep and death are synonymous,
they didn't get that, okay,
so then Jesus tries to clarify a little bit more,
a little bit later here,
He's talking to Martha... to the sister of Lazarus,
and He says in verse 23, "Jesus said unto her,
Thy brother shall rise again.
And Martha said to him, I know that he shall rise again
in the resurrection at the last day,"
which is what we were talking about
and then He goes on...
"Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection,
and the life: he that believes in me
though he were dead, yet shall he live... "
now get this, verse 26,
"And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall... " what?
Jason: Never die...
Then He asks a question, what's the question He asks?
All: "Believest thou this?"
James: "Do you believe that... do you believe that?
Do you believe that you will never die?"
So really, in this church statement here,
okay, when you read Revelation chapter 2 and verse 10,
"Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer:
behold the devil shall cast some of you into prison,
and ye may be tried;
and you shall have tribulation ten days:
be thou faithful unto... "
Ivor: Sleep...
James: Sleep... right? Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm..
James: because you won't be hurt of... death...
Yvonne: Right...
James: That's the way a Christian reads these verses,
"be faithful unto sleep...
because you won't be hurt of death... "
Yvonne: Yes...
James: The only reason why it's death and second death
is because we never got to sleep that part
and so this is clarification for us.
The first death is a sleep.
So that's even more powerful
because that's basically what Jesus is saying to us,
He's saying, "Hey you're just going to sleep,
just be faithful, you're just going to sleep
you won't be hurt of death, you won't die,
if you believe in me, you'll never die. "
Yvonne: So we're not saying... we need to clarify...
we're not saying that you don't go to sleep in death
but that death is "a sleep.. " it's a temporary sleep...
just like you go... you go to bed...
you go to sleep and you wake up the next morning
you've been asleep but you're not permanently gone.
James: But the second death... or death itself is permanent.
Yvonne: Right.
Ivor: Let's just recap something very quickly,
first church... 31 A.D. roughly to about a 100 A.D.
that brings the 70-Week Prophecy into view... the first church...
the second church... we're in an interim...
between the 70 Weeks and the 1,260...
we've left the 70-Week... we're not yet at 1,260...
so we're in an interim...
and so we just want to keep that in mind as we move on.
James: Timeless... Yvonne: Time and location...
James: And again we want to emphasize,
questions, questions, questions, send in your video questions.
Jason: There you go... to...
sss@3abn. org
"s" as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs.
James: Salvation in Symbols and Signs.
Yvonne: Yeah!
James: So we are excited... this is just a great journey...
I think... it's... I'm learning as I'm going...
and I think we all are and we're taking our time...
we're not... we don't have an agenda
we're just moving through it and God is blessing
so Yvonne, close us out with a word of prayer, would you?
Yvonne: Sure... "Father, thank you so much
for the richness of your Word
and for allowing us to just break bread together,
thank you, Lord... we just praise you and bless your name
and help us to be ready when you come back, Lord Jesus,
in Jesus' name we pray, amen."
All: "Amen..."