We are beginning to move into the seven churches
into the Book of Revelation I should say,
we're actually, we're actually getting somewhere
in our last session we got through the church of Smyrna,
the session before that, we got through
the church of Ephesus... so, we're now in Pergamos,
we're now moving to the next church
or the third church in the sequence of the seven churches
and there's... there's... there were four verses
we covered in the last session together,
we have about six verses in this session,
the next session is going to be even longer than that,
so I'm hoping that we can actually
just move through this entire section of Pergamos
and understand it in relation to the history
and of course, in relation to us
we also have a question that came from
the floor, right here, that we want to touch on
from our last session concerning death
so we want to touch on that but before we do that,
before we get into church,
let's begin with a word of prayer,
Jason, would you have prayer for us?
Sure, "Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you for another day of study, Lord,
please be with us as we go through our study
and help us to retain the information that is discussed,
in Jesus' name we pray, amen. " All: "Amen... "
All right, so, Seth asked a question
and he didn't want to be on camera,
he didn't want to get videoed, so, we're just going to pretend
that I'm Seth, could someone get me a wig,
Seth's hair is a little longer than mine is
and it was a neat question,
we talked about the first death and the second death,
we talked about the fact
that in the Bible, there's really just one death,
because the first death is actually a sleep,
but the disciples didn't get it, in John chapter 11,
Jesus tried to explain to them that Lazarus, who had died,
was actually sleeping
because the first death is like a sleep that you wake up from
and that those who believe in Jesus, never really die...
and then He asked us the question,
and he asked Martha the question,
He asked us, "Do you believe that?"
and we didn't quite get it so, the Book of Revelation
which is the final book of the New Testament,
adds this phrase, "The Second Death,"
you don't find it anywhere else in the Bible,
it's only in the Book of Revelation,
"the second death," but in reality,
it's death, there's sleep and there's death
and death... when you experience death...
it's final... and that's what the phrase,
"second death" means, the phrase, "second death"
is descriptive of the type of death,
it's not sequential,
so the question that Seth asked was,
"Well, if Lazarus died
the first death, of course,
and Jesus resurrected... then he must have died again
the second death, is he going to actually
be like... or if he was lost...
would he experience a third death...
what's the third death?"
And so the answer to that question is,
"Well, no, because Lazarus never experienced the 'second death,'
what he experienced was going to 'sleep' a second time,
and so it's not sequential. "
Ivor: Or he died the "first death" twice.
James: He died the "first death" twice...
he experienced the "first death" twice,
yeah, so... so "second... "
the word... the phrase "second death"
is not described in a sequential...
like, first death, second death, third death,
it's described being an experience,
it's an ultimate experience of dying
and not being resurrected,
Yvonne: It's an internal separation from God.
James: It's an internal separation from God.
Ivor: It occurs at the end of the 1,000 years,
where the Bible specifically says, "this is the second death"
those who are not found in the Book of Life,
were destroyed in that second death,
so, if someone dies now,
and by some means, came back to life
and then... died again,
they still wouldn't have died the second death
because the second death occurs at the end of the millennium.
So, again, second death, first death... it's not like,
"Okay, if he died a second time, it's...
like in the case of Lazarus, it is descriptive, as you say,
no coming back from the second death.
Yvonne: Right...
James: No coming back, good,
okay, we're in Revelation chapter 2
we are in the church of Pergamos
which begins in verse 12, and I'm thinking that
there are a lot of verses here, if we could read through them...
Jason, if you could read maybe the first three verses
and then Yvonne, if could read the next three?
"And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write;
These things saith he which hath the sharp sword
with two edges; I know they works,
and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is:
and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith,
even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr,
who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.
But I have a few things against thee,
because thou hast there
them that hold the doctrine of Balaam,
who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock
before the children of Israel,
to eat things sacrificed unto idols,
and to commit fornication.
So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine
of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.
Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly,
and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He that hath an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches;
To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna,
and will give him a white stone, and in the stone
a new name written, which no man knoweth
saving he that receiveth it. "
Okay, so, here is a basic description
of the next age of the church,
the church has begun with the outpouring of the Holy Spirit,
they're on fire for Jesus,
but they're in danger of losing their first love
and that's the apostasy that creeps into that early church
just toward the end of the first century
100 A.D. and onward and then it goes through some
fierce persecution which culminates 303 to 313 A.D.
under Diocletian and that ends in 313
and in steps a man by the name of Constantine,
now, Constantine's rule beginning in 313
is exactly the opposite of what has been taking place
in the Roman Empire up to that time...
Constantine actually fled from the Emperor,
he went to England where his father was,
he worked under him for a while, he died... his father died...
and he became very strong in his influence with his soldiers
and he... from that position... was able to go back to Rome
and eventually, take power,
he had watched what happened with the Christians
and how they had been persecuted
and how the persecution had affected the empire,
and he saw that the blood of Christians was seed
and so he watched the strength of the Christian church grow
and he decided... rather than persecute them,
"I need their help, I need their aid,
I need them to be on my side" and so Constantine began
to restore to the Christians their land and their rights,
their personal property, their churches,
he turned... overturned Diocletian's persecution
and he was able to gain the support of the Christians
but it was at a terrible cost
because the Christians now were compromising their faith,
Constantine was a Christian so... so...
he was a professed, nominal Christian
but he still believed in a lot of the pagan traditions of Rome
and he wanted to keep those in there,
he was a Civil Magistrate, he was the Leader...
became the Emperor there in the Roman Empire
and so... this was the time when the church was elevated...
now the word "Pergamos" means acropolis or elevation...
the period that we're looking at here
is about 313 A.D. to 538 A.D. and it's a time...
in the age of Constantine,
when the church is elevated in the status in the world,
it's a time when that elevation comes with a terrible cost
and the cost is compromise
and that's what we see taking place here
in this phase of the Christian church.
Yvonne: And is that not the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes?
James: The doctrine of Nicolaitanes
includes compromise.
Ivor: So, it set the stage
for what comes in that third church period,
So, remember, when we talked about...
the second church
where there was persecution going on
and you know, under persecution, we're more apt to be faithful
we're being persecuted... we're being faithful...
but as soon as Constantine comes in
and he elevates the church and says,
"Hey, you know what? No more persecution for you... "
and things start looking "up" for the church,
this is where you see... it's interesting...
that under the...
under the second church... he's like...
"I look there... those who say they're Jews and are not... "
where are they when persecution is going on?
They're compromising...
now when compromise...
when Constantine comes up on the scene
and Christianity is elevated...
guess who are the ones that come to the front...
to the forefront to seek positions of...
"Hey, we can help you and you want to do this...
okay... yeah... we're willing to compromise"
these were the ones that were already compromising
under that second church period so now you have this
"marrying" if you will... of Church and State
under this man named Constantine
and what the people actually end up doing,
is they began to put more trust in a king
instead of their Priest in heaven.
So they began to put emphasis...
"we're going to trust Rome...
Rome is going to be our protector"
well, wait a minute, I mean, talk about a love story...
"Guys, I'm supposed to be your protector,
what do you mean 'Rome is now marrying you,'
wait, you're marrying who? Rome?
wait a minute, I'm your husband, I'm your protector. "
And what they're saying is,
"Well, you didn't do a good job of protecting us...
so... we're going to... "
this is the what... this is the "love story drama"
unfolding before us is now...
"she seeks to marry one other than her husband"
Jason: That sounds like an affair doesn't it?
It sounds like they're truly getting divorced,
it sounds like, "well, if they're compromising,
then they're having an affair, they're cheating... "
they're kind of just... "well, we'll take some of this
but we'll go ahead and get some of that too. "
Ivor: Absolutely, absolutely.
James: And we see this in the Old Testament again,
we see it in the Book of Hosea, it's really clear...
"They went to their lovers...
and they didn't know that I gave them the corn
and wine and the oil, says the Lord..
and you were supposed to call me 'husband'"
and the whole history of ancient Israel
is being repeated here in the New Testament Christian Church,
in the ages of these churches... we move through these churches,
we see that same history being repeated,
so what about some of these symbols...
let's break some of these down, verse 13,
"I know thy works. and where thou dwellest,
even where Satan's seat is: and you hold fast my name,
and yet not denied my faith,
even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr,
who was slain among you, where Satan dwells... "
so what is this talking about historically?
Yvonne and Jason: I have no idea,
break it down for us would you?
laughter...
Jason: We'll be here all day...
more laughter...
Ivor: So what we're seeing here is,
when the Bible says, "where Satan's seed is"
Satan has set up his... his... his authority
at this point in time, this is where Satan's seed is
and I think... we may tie this a little bit later but...
James: To the third trumpet...
Ivor: To the third trumpet...
James: where the angel comes down from heaven...
Ivor: We were talking about... oh, oh...
yes, yeah, yeah... but when we look at this...
setting up of...
it's almost as though Satan is now setting up his authority
right, that he did not have in church number 1,
and church number 2.
James: Right... Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: All of a sudden you see a seat there
and a cycle... okay, what's happening here?
This is like a precursor
of something that's coming... down the road...
James: He's coming in now
to the church and establishing his seat in the church.
Ivor: Exactly... because remember,
according to 2nd Thessalonians,
"a man of sin will ultimately sit in the temple of God
showing himself... that he is God. "
So Satan's seat here is being set up...
now what's interesting is that in the same verse
it talks about... "Thou hast held fast my name,
and hast not denied my faith, even in those days wherein
Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain... "
so there's no historical record of a man by the name of Antipas.
James: There's no historical record.
Ivor: Right, however, when we look at names...
especially as it relates to the seven churches,
we see that these names are symbolic...
Balaam... Old Testament figure
but Balaam is not alive in the...
Jezebel... which we'll see in church number four.
James: And Balac...
Ivor: Yeah, Balac... these names all represent
something... okay...
and so just as Jezebel is not alive
during the fourth church period but she is described...
there's a symbol behind the word "Jezebel"
so Antipas... is actually two words being brought together,
Anti... against... and Pa... Pa's... Fathers
so here you have this... this... this symbol...
of someone who is against the Fathers...
and you'll remember that it was this time in history
where we begin to hear about these so called "Church Fathers"
who are now teaching things that...
or claiming to have power over the church
an authority over the church... eminence...
James: Yeah, John warned about those
who wanted preeminence in the church
and if you can imagine...
Ivor: Pergamos... James: Yes, yes...
Ivor: exalting...
James: Yes, Paul warned about people who would
draw disciples after themselves
so that they could exalt themselves,
again about the "man of sin" exalting himself,
and so you have this... this...
John... to me... is the most significant
because he's writing in his letter...
and I'm just going to find it here real quick,
just to read it, he's writing his letter,
now he's on the Isle of Patmos
and he is writing to the church there,
and... here he is... he's an aged disciple...
the disciple that Jesus loved...
he's been through everything with Christ
and then gone through everything with the early church
and then God has given him the Book of Revelation,
he's writing that... and I read these words so many times
and I just couldn't believe this,
I think it's the third epistle here,
"I wrote unto the church but Diotrephes,
who loveth to have the preeminence among them,
receives us not. "
What? I'm writing to the church,
this is 3rd John and it's verse 9,
he's writing to the church, "I'm a disciple of Christ,
I'm an Apostle of Christ, I've known Him forever,
I'm writing to the church and there's someone there
who wants to have the preeminence...
he won't receive me... he won't receive us... "
when I read this... and every time I read it
I just think, "How could that be?
Here's a man who walked with Christ
and there are people in the church
who won't receive him right in his day when he is still alive"
this is taking place... now this development...
so what's happening is...
when it says that Satan's seat is being established
in the church, it's talking about
what is Satan's... what is his seat?
What was Satan wanting, well he says in Isaiah 14...
he says, "I want to sit in the sides of the North
I want to be like the most High,
I want worship, I want preeminence... "
Well, he didn't really want to be like the Most High
because the "most High" is like John...
the "most High" is not like these men
who were seeking the preeminence
so to be like the "most High" is to be humble...
but... but... he wanted the place and the authority
and so when it says, "Satan's seat... "
it's talking about the very thing
that Satan wanted in Isaiah 14,
verses 12 through 14... he wanted authority,
he wanted preeminence, he wanted...
that's what's taking place here
as the church compromises...
people come in... they're saying,
"Oh we don't have to go... undergo persecution anymore... "
this is great... we can be Christians...
and we can prosper and we can have the preeminence
that our hearts desire... our natural hearts desire...
and then there are people who are saying,
"No, we're against this... we're against these fathers...
these... these... false figures
that are 'saying' they're Christian...
even from John's time and coming in here...
and they don't have the spirit of Christ... "
as John says in another verse,
"There are many Antichrists
that are coming in the world... many Antichrists... "
Ivor: So remember, Paul,
when he's writing his letter to the seven churches,
has been warning, "Watch out for these guys... "
right now... Paul's writings were
hundreds of years earlier now, right?
Now we're beginning to see the fruit
of what Paul was warning about in those letters to the seven...
in his letters to the seven churches
we are beginning to see that fruition
of what Paul was talking about, "man of sin...
sitting in the Temple of God... showing himself that he is God,"
these... the desire for preeminence
and division coming in...
we're seeing these things being fulfilled here.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Jason: I had a question... okay going back to
Antipas... does that...?
Ivor: Antipas...
Jason: Okay, Antipas, like...
from reading that, how do you know
that there's nobody in history,
like where did you get that from?
James: Good question...
Ivor: Yeah, so... as you look at the...
here's a good thing to...
when you're studying the Book of Revelation,
history is going to be important,
the witness of history is going to be important,
when... also... it's also good to have commentaries...
so you can kind of glean from other scholars
historical scholars, scholars on prophecy...
scholars on history and see okay,
"What have they said
when it comes to this particular verse?"
And then you've got to take the good
and reject the bad... accept the good
and so, historically speaking...
as you look at all these figures,
you can see reference or record
to the existence of certain characters.
Antipas... there's no record or existence...
so we... we're just left with...
"Okay, who is this Antipas?
It sounds like this would be someone that everyone knew,
"His faithful martyr... "
but you have no record of him in the New Testament,
and so... again... when you're looking at
The Book of Revelation and then you...
you see... okay... Jezebel...
was a real person but she's not...
why is he speaking about Jezebel
as though she's present in the church,
no, no, no... this name is symbolic
so once we come to that conclusion, and say,
"Okay... names here... in reference to the churches
represent symbols... " then we can say,
"Okay, well that opens up then for me...
not to look at Antipas as an actual person
but what might this name have meant
or what would the name have been a symbol of?"
And then the only way we have to do that
is to actually look at the name... what does it mean?
Remember names carry significant meanings
so Jesus... He will save His people from their sins,
that's what the name means, right?
Look at various names...
that's another actual symbol... Jacob... one who prevails...
Israel... one that will overcome,
James: Jacob... one who deceives,
Ivor: Yes... yes... James: Jacob... supplanter...
Ivor: So names...
names in the Bible represent character,
so all we have to go on "Antipas" is not...
"Okay... hey... Antipas... "
all right... well, what do I have left?
Let me look at his character,
let me look at what his name means,
and I see the name... Anti... Fathers...
Anti fathers... wait a minute... what... where am I?
Well, we're in the Holy Place.
What time?
We're in the time just before 1,260,
ha... yeah... this is the time period
where people were coming up on the scene
who were claiming to have preeminence
and authority... so...
James: In the church...
Ivor: In the church... so whoever this symbolically is
he must have been against the preeminence...
faithful martyr... "I'm not bowing to you,"
you see what I'm saying?
"I'm not going to bow... no... call one your Father... "
all right, so God is the holy Father
but apparently there were other powers
who were now trying to claim that title.
All: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: So it has to match the context which...
we have several options here, I mean several examples here,
of individual names that represent a System
or represent a principle rather than an individual,
we have Jezebel, we have Balac,
we have Balaam, Antipas, fits into that context,
also, it has to... we have to go back to history
and see if we can find it,
if we can't find an individual in history,
there's no historical records, what's the other option?
And then when we find another option
like the principle of... "against the Fathers,"
it has to fit the history,
were there men who were standing up
claiming they're "Fathers of the Church,"
claiming preeminence in the church,
that had to be opposed and in that opposition
we see God's people being martyred
and they were, in fact, when this started happening,
there was a... there's a famous statement
in a book called "The Great Controversy,"
it talks about compromise taking place,
and it says, "The faithful followers of Christ,
at this time said, 'Let there be division even war... '"
so there was a clear demarcation that started to take place here
during this time of compromise
where the church now is getting ready to go underground
because they're not willing to compromise
and allow those pagan principles...
and those principles of preeminence to come in
and by-the-way, what's interesting is,
preeminence... self exaltation
leads to the compromise of the truth.
It starts with the wrong heart right here
and then the truth... compromise and truth follows.
Ivor: And what did Lucifer say?
"I will exalt... I will exalt my throne...
my seat... above the stars of God,
I will be like the most High. "
James: Isaiah 14...
Ivor: So here's something I want to point out,
if I can, very quickly...
because we've been looking at this pattern
in the Old Testament and guess what, now,
we saw the first church... that Adam onward...
the second church... persecution,
oh, that's the Book of Exodus,
that's the Children of Israel coming out of captivity,
well guess what part of history occurs
in the Children of Israel after they come out of Egypt,
they enter into the Promise Land...
whew... ha... persecution is over...
we're here and they get a...
they... they say, "You know what?
We don't want a Priest reigning over us... "
James: Prophet... Yvonne: That's right...
Ivor: "We want a king... " and who was that king?
Saul... and who was Saul? He was an anointed one,
who was beautiful... who was comely to look at
but guess what?
That anointed one ended up turning against God,
that story sounds very familiar and what did Saul do?
He was a King who fell because
he served the authority of the Priesthood,
in other words, in him... was a combination
of State and Church, exactly what we have happening
with Constantine.
Yvonne: Wow!
James: And he tried to persecute God's faithful people,
tried to kill God's faithful people.
Ivor: Absolutely, absolutely.
James: Why? Even his son, Jonathan... and David.
Yvonne: And it was a love story because God said to Samuel,
"They're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. "
Ivor: And that is exactly
what the church of Pergamos ends up doing,
in rejecting their High Priest, for a King...
"We want your protection,
we want to be like the nations around us,
we want authority now, we've been persecuted too long,
give us a King... "
what ends up happening?
They begin... they... in essence...
reject their High Priest for a King.
Yvonne: Wow! wow...
James: And as you read through these verses...
it talks here about Balaam ,
and we know Balaam's all about money,
all about getting ahead, so he was a prophet of God...
God even talked to him through the donkey
he compromised for money
so you have a church here compromising for money,
for prestige, for a place in the world,
Balac, of course, he wanted to see
God's people conquered, how can we do it?
So Balaam finally comes up with a plan?
"If we can get them to compromise in one area,
just one area... okay...
well you've got the Ten Commandments...
you've got the doctrine of Nicolaitanes... "Antinomianism,"
if we can just compromise one of those Commandments,
so in 321... Constantine brings in
what's known in history to be "The first Sunday Law,"
and the Sunday Law is taking the pagan worship of the sun
but bringing it into the church,
so he's compromising in one area... just one area...
Ivor: Marrying of paganism with Christianity.
James: Marrying the women of Balaam,
the woman... the Canaanite woman...
so you see that... all that history playing out...
committing fornication, being unfaithful to God
and then, "repent or I will come unto thee quickly,
and remove thy candlestick from my place
I'll fight against it with a sword of iron... "
now here's... this is powerful because
this is... the sword of his mouth
is talking about the Word of God
and this was what God kept alive and He's keeping alive...
He's going to keep fighting all through the dark ages,
the Word of God is going to be kept shining
and fighting and fighting till finally...
it's going to actually not come back void,
it's going to accomplish what its purpose is,
you've got Luther, you've got Wycliffe,
you've got others who... the Word of God...
they never meant to leave the church...
leave the compromised church even,
but the Word of God... He constrained them...
I was constrained...
I'm constrained by the Word of God.
Ivor: So that manna that He gives...
as the reward... goes right in line with that,
He says, "For you who remain faithful
not compromising my Word,
I'm going to give you more manna,
I'm going to give you hidden manna... "
James: And I'm going to give you a white stone
and we talked about that a little bit
but the stone... in this context...
the stone is representing what?
Ivor: So, when your name is... you think about Hollywood...
when they write your name in stone,
it's saying, "All your names are immortalized"
so what Jesus is promising here is He's saying,
"Look, if I write your name in stone,
that means you're going to last forever,
you're going to last forever...
so it's a promise again of eternal life...
don't compromise, remember my love for you
don't compromise,
I'm going to give you the Word of God,
I'm going to give you eternal life,
be faithful and you will get this reward. "
James: And that stone also represents...
all through the New Testament, the stones of the Temple,
the true church, Jesus is the cornerstone
and we're built on Apostles and Prophets
so, they had to... in a sense...
they had to leave the established church
the outward church, they had to go underground,
they're getting ready to go underground
but God is promising them,
"You're still going to be a part of 'the church,'
you're going to still have that promise that I've given you
to be a part of the church in heaven,
the New Jerusalem, the church of the first born. "
Ivor: Amen...
James: So, okay, we are out of time...
again, we want to remind our listeners
that they can send their questions in to...
Jason: sss@3abn. org
James: sss@3abn. org
Yvonne: Send your video questions.
Jason: Yes.
James: Video questions, video questions...
Yvonne: Video questions... yeah...
All right Ivor, take us out with a word of prayer, would you?
Ivor: All right, let's pray,
"Heavenly Father, we thank you for the study of your Word,
Lord we thank you for showing us
the history of Israel being repeated
and how we can be faithful Lord
and receive that white stone receive that name,
Father, please bless us as we continue to study your Word
and help us to see that Revelation
is not a book of terror but it is indeed a love story,
help us Lord to love you with all of our hearts,
we pray this in Jesus' name, amen. "
All: "Amen... "