The next church is Thyatira... sacrifice and penitence.
Millions of people are sacrificed for their faith
during this church period, it's the period of the dark ages
and it follows what we studied in our last session
and that is... the period of compromise
right after the persecution of pagan Rome,
it ends in 313... Diocletian goes out...
Constantine comes in and the church is elevated,
all the properties are given back,
they become rich... people come in...
compromise takes place
by 321, we have the first Sunday Law,
a combination of paganism with worship of God
and so you've got the church compromised,
the faithful now are moving in a different direction,
they're against the fathers,
they're not willing to make these compromises...
Antipas... and that moves us
into this next church... sacrifice of penitence,
many people losing their lives
and martyred through the Dark Ages.
So let's begin with a word of prayer... we'll jump right in,
Jason, pray for us would you?
Sure, "Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you for another day of studying,
we are covering some deep material
but you're making it possible for us to make it practical
and we ask that you be with us once again
and help us to comprehend what we're studying
in Jesus' name we pray, amen. " All: "Amen... "
So let's just begin by reading the verses
and Jason, start us out...
we'll read... starting with verse 18 of Revelation chapter 2
we're going to read all the way through to verse 29
and so we got quite a few verses here and just read...
I don't know... read about half of them...
Okay, "And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write;
These things saith the Son of God,
who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire,
and his feet are like fine brass;
I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith,
and thy patience, and thy works;
and the last to be more than the first.
Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee,
because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel,
which calleth herself a prophetess,
to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication,
and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.
And I gave her space to repent of her fornication;
and she repented not.
Behold, I will cast her into a bed,
and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation,
except they repent of their deeds.
And I will kill her children with death;
and all the churches shall know
that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts:
and I will give unto every one of you
according to your works. "
James: Yvonne, you want to finish these verses?
"But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira,
as many as have not this doctrine,
and which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak;
I will put upon you none other burden.
But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.
And he that overcometh,
and keepeth my works unto the end,
to him will I give power over the nations:
And he shall rule them with a rod of iron;
as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers:
even as I received of my Father,
And I will him the morning star.
He that hath an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. "
Twelve verses now,
there's a lot of information in here,
but there is some really beautiful stuff,
some powerful stuff.
I like the way that it opens up,
Jesus identifies Himself here,
He's the son of man in chapter one
but the same description is used that is found in chapter one
"the eyes like a flame of fire"
and it says that his feet are like fine brass
and here he's identified as the Son of God
and so we know that the Son of man is the Son of God
and we know that the Son of God is, of course, Jesus Christ
and so we see here a description of Himself
that connects us back to chapter one... why?
Well, I think one of the reasons why is because
we want to remember that as bad as the church is
and it's really getting bad now, this is worse...
this is the worst condition right here
in the sense of compromise,
in the sense of turning away from Christ,
that Jesus still pictures Himself...
among the candlesticks.
In fact, He says right here in the context of this verse 21
He says, "I gave her space to repent,"
now we're talking about Jezebel, not Jezebel literally
but Jezebel-type actions... Jezebel-type spirit...
do you remember the story of Jezebel and Ahab?
One of those stories is pretty clear to me,
it's a story of when Ahab coveted a vineyard
that was connected to his property
and he wanted it
and he asked the owner of that vineyard to sell it to him
and the owner said, "I can't sell it to you
because this is in my family... "
in fact it was forbidden for him to sell it...
it had to go back to him at some point even if he did sell it,
"this is in my family and I can't sell it... "
and so Ahab went home and he had a pout party...
and in the middle of this pout party,
Jezebel comes in and sees the king pouting and says,
"What's wrong, why are you so pouty?"
And he basically explains that he wanted this vineyard
and he offered money for the vineyard
and the owner wouldn't sell it... and then she says,
"Don't you worry... I'll take care of all of that"
and she goes down there
and she has this guy falsely accused before the townspeople
and killed... so that she can take that vineyard
and give it to her husband
and he takes ownership of the vineyard
and along comes Elijah and Elijah basically rebukes Ahab
and when he rebukes Ahab, Ahab responds and repents
and the Lord is talking here, I'm just reading the last verse
in 1st Kings chapter 21,
"And the word of God came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
Seest thou how Ahab humbles himself before me,
because he humbles himself before me,
I will not bring this evil in his days:
but in his son's days will I bring this evil upon his house"
that is how gracious God is,
this was wicked... this was pure wickedness that took place
and yet as he humbled himself, God was gracious,
God was merciful... "I'm not going to bring this"
and the thing He was talking about bringing was...
judgment and justice to Ahab's whole house,
he was going to take out Ahab's whole house
because of this and so, "I gave her space to repent,"
Jesus is among the candlesticks, He's trimming them up,
He wants them to burn, He wants them to repent.
We should make sure that it was not just this one incident
that Ahab did that God said,
"Okay, your house is going to be punished... "
they were... they had done much wickedness...
this is kind of like the final straw...
James: Years and years... Ivor: Exactly... exactly...
James: God is long suffering... Ivor: Long suffering...
James: And we want to bring that into the story here,
into the church here,
we've got hundreds of years of compromise
and God is suffering long... suffering long, suffering long
through these hundreds of years.
Ivor: I just want to... this is a pop test...
for you guys because...
we don't want to tell you the time period
but we just want to remember something
that the first church we were looking at...
the 70-Week Prophecy...
church number 2 and 3... we were looking at the interim
so, church number two from 100 to 313...
church number 3 from 313 to a certain period of time,
so, this 4th church... what do you think
in terms of where we are in time...
and where would this fourth church bring us?
Yvonne: Would this be the 1,260?
Ivor: Absolutely, this would be the 1,260...
and now, without us saying that,
because of the principles we've laid out, you're able to say,
"Yeah, that makes sense because that's what's coming next,
next, we know where we are in time,
we know that... the 70-Weeks have passed...
we saw the church numbers 2 and 3 were the interim...
so yeah... church number four...
is going to be in the period of the 1,260...
so that's why we talked about that measuring stick,
that it helps you to be able to say,
"Okay, I'm able to see this now more... in my mind...
in terms of where we are in prophecy
and what's coming next.
James: Very important... I love that.
Yvonne: this thing with Jezebel calling herself a prophetess,
now, how is that... it...
there's some relation to the church here,
this whole kind of spirit... this attitude... what is it?
Ivor: What is a prophetess? One who speaks on behalf of...?
Yvonne: God... Ivor: God...
so this woman is claiming...
now remember...
and this is a principle that we really need to hit
but in the Old Testament, things that are literal...
are applied spiritually in the New Testament
particularly in the Book of Revelation,
so for example, Old Testament... literal lamb slain...
New Testament... Jesus, "behold the lamb of God... "
right? Old Testament... literal candlestick...
New Testament... "You are the light of the world.
A city set on a hill cannot be hidden...
Neither do men light a candle... "
right, so, we can go through many examples...
James and Ivor: Literal Israel, spiritual Israel...
Ivor: literal circumcision,
New Testament... circumcision of the heart...
so, Jezebel... Old Testament... literal...
James: Literal woman... Ivor: Literal woman...
New Testament... spiritual church,
James: Spiritual woman... church...
Ivor: That's right, a woman in Bible prophecy
symbolizes a church,
so Christ says, "Husbands, love your wives... "
it's a love story... husbands love your wives...
even as Christ loved the church...
so, Jezebel then would represent a church
claiming to speak on behalf of... God...
who... while doing this,
is putting the people of God to death.
Yvonne: Hmmm... Jason: Wow!
Ivor: Ah... and all of that... based on principle...
not, "okay, let's see what fits so what sounds good... "
no... because of the timing...
now we can say, "Okay, what church
would have arisen...
or would have been present at this time
1,260... that would claim to be speaking on behalf of God...
what power... what authority...
would claim to be speaking on behalf of God
and yet persecuting the people of God
as literal Jezebel did in the Old Testament?
James: And even adding to that, it says here in verse 20,
"Jezebel, which calls herself a prophetess, and teaches...
to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication,"
again... that's spiritual fornication...
faithfulness to God...
so she's teaching doctrines that lead to unfaithfulness to God.
Ivor: Which points us to Revelation chapter 17 and 18
where the woman is described as "Mystery Babylon... "
James: Right... and then it goes on to say,
"and eats those things sacrificed unto idols. "
So, what you have here...
is you have this spiritual fornication that's taking place,
you have seducing... teaching things that are
seducing people to be unfaithful to God,
you have "spiritual idolatry" taking place,
so, in the context of this, you have a church
that is worshipping idols and teaching false doctrines
and yet claims to be a follower of God.
Ivor: While persecuting the people of God.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: So that's how that Old Testament story
now sheds light...
we're not looking for a literal Jezebel here,
now, who was named Jezebel... during the 1,260...
what woman... no, there was no woman...
who carried that name... right?
I mean... you know in terms of literal history
that the Bible is talking about, this is symbolic... symbols...
we're understanding the symbols and saying,
"Okay, this is what this symbol is explaining to us. "
James: And then you're looking at verse 19...
now, this is another aspect of the characteristic
of this "woman," okay, verse 19...
"I know thy works, charity, service, faith,
and thy patience, and thy works;
and the last to be more than the first. "
So, now you have a system, a religious system...
that is filled with works and faith and patience
and more works at the end than at the beginning,
so, what kind of religious system
is professing to speak for God
while seducing his servants into apostasy and fornication
but at the same time, you're filled with charity
and works and faith... in other words...
honest people... people who follow God...
who serve God... who are honestly seeking after God
and yet are being deceived and seduced
by the teachings of this church
that are not in harmony with the Word of God.
Ivor: And... and to add to that,
for the time period we're looking at
which would be the 1,260 years, right?
Now how would we know that 1,260-year period?
Again, going back to the Book of Daniel,
we see Daniel describing a power that is just like this,
it's called the "Little Horn," it's supposed...
it's a religious power that persecutes the people of God,
that claims to speak on behalf of God
so when we have this understanding
of who this little... what this Little Horn is
and the time period allotted to it... 1,260...
we again go,
"Okay, as I'm reading this description of this woman,
this sounds just like the Little Horn of Daniel 7,
this must be the 1,260-year period we're looking at.
Yeah, I really need to review that area of interpretation
because I really just guessed that 1,260...
I know, praise the Lord, it was a good guess
but I really want to know, like, how do I know
that it's in the 70 or the 1,260 or the 2,300?
Ivor: So, we can say that any time you see...
you can identify... that power
that persecutes the saints of God,
speaking on behalf of God, that is 1,260...
Yvonne: Why?
Ivor: That's the time period allotted to it
in the Book of Daniel chapter 7
in other places in the Book of Revelation,
the same time period is described
as 42 months... okay...
it is described as "a time, times and a half"
in several different places,
so you're looking at the same time period
being revealed in different places in Revelation
and in the Book of Daniel, so once you...
if I say, "1,260... "
you should say, "Mystery Babylon"
if I say, "Mystery Babylon," you say, "1,260... "
right, so wherever you see "Mystery Babylon"
doing these things to the people of God,
you can assume... this is 1,260...
unless it's in the context of what's coming after...
at the very end of time. Yvonne: Okay...
James: And that's 2,300... right?
Ivor: So, think about it like this...
the days of the week...
you don't go from Sunday, Monday, Tuesday
and then skip Wednesday and jump to Thursday...
same with the churches,
we started in one period, in 31 A.D. to a 100...
the second period...
and now we saw that relating to the 70-Week Prophecy...
31 A.D. connects us to the 70-Week Prophecy,
but then the second church from 100 A.D.
when Roman persecution really hit the church,
and lasts till about 313... this is an interim...
this is not the 70... it's not the 1,260...
right, so after that second church
you have the third church which is Pergamos,
where a compromise began
but this woman isn't on the scene yet,
it's not the little horn yet so we can't say,
"this is the little horn" this is only pre-little horn...
pre-Jezebel...
once we get to Jezebel...
and we identify what she's doing,
we're going, "Wait a minute,
yeah, this is exactly what's described in Daniel
under the 1,260-year Prophecy
so this must be beginning in 538, right,
and extending throughout the dark ages. "
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm... hmmm... hmmm... okay...
Ivor: Okay... so that...
that's why I said those three time prophecies
70... 1,260... 2,300...
if you can get those in your mind,
and hammer those down and it may be new...
"Okay... how do I... " but once you get those,
70... 1,260... 2,300...
everything in the Book of Revelation,
revolves around those three prophecies...
James: Yeah, and they're consecutive...
they're consecutive... so in other words,
when you start with the 70...
the next thing you do is 1,260...
and the next thing you do is 2,300...
you're going to go from one to the next to the next...
so if you're in the 70...
and you see that coming to an end...
then you know you're moving toward the 1,260...
as you see that coming to an end...
you know you're moving toward 1844...
because it's all progressive
and then we get to the Seals...
we start all over... we go back to the 70...
Apostolic Age and then we go through the same time periods
all over again, and they're just one indicator,
we have a number of different indicators
that we're using on this... that's one indicator,
so... and it's a good one, it's a really good one because
it is outlined again in Revelation chapter 12...
actually 11 and 12 and Daniel chapter 7 as well
and Daniel chapter 12... all talk about the 1,260
and in different ways...
Okay, so,
verse 21, "I gave her space to repent
of her fornication; and she repented not. "
This is what we saw God going with Ahab and Jezebel.
"Tell them I'm going to judge them and let's see what he does"
He repents... wow... but she doesn't repent...
now the space that God gives her to repent is 1,260 years...
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: Why did God allow His people
to be persecuted for that long?
Because He had people in there
that were faithful and charitable
and had good works and faith and He's moving through this
and giving them the opportunity to repent and to come around
and to come around... but they wouldn't... they wouldn't.
Yvonne: Not the literal Jezebel but the spiritual Jezebel...
James: The Spiritual Jezebel...
Ivor: So, James, do you remember
in our last program, we talked about...
I don't know if it was the last one or before...
we talked about how Christ said "if you have ought against
your brother, go to him yourself... " right...
Christ comes to humanity Himself
70-Week Prophecy...
all right... you don't listen... you reject me...
all right... I'm going to send two witnesses,
that takes us to Revelation chapter 11
that introduces those two witnesses
who prophesied for guess how long?
1,260 years, right,
so what are those two witnesses doing?
they're pointing to Jezebel, right, saying, "Repent... "
so, just as you're saying, "He gave them space to repent"
that space is 1,260 years, what does she do?
She rejects the two witnesses.
James: Which is the Word of God. Ivor: Which is the Word of God.
James: And in that context, He brings her into tribulation.
Now, we're going to jump ahead a little bit here
but I just want to bring this out
because it's going to be... recapitulate this...
it's gong to be in the Trumpets...
we're going to see this in the trumpets
but it says in verses 22 and 23, "But I will cast her into a bed,
and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation,
except that they repent of their deeds.
And I will kill her children with death;
and all the churches will know
that I am he which searcheth the reins and heart:
and will give unto every one of you according to your works. "
Part of this tribulation that this power went through
was... came in the form of Islam...
it came in the form of a group...
a religious group that rose up in the Middle East
and came against the Medieval Church
that was worshipping idols
in the form of chastening and judgments,
in fact, a lot of the leaders of the Muslim armies
said... as they went to battle
against this compromising Christian church, they said,
"Kill only those
who are worshipping idols and have shorn heads...
don't kill those who worship God without worshipping idols... "
and that's what it talks... in Revelation chapter 9 about...
"don't hurt those that have the seal of God,
don't hurt those who are settled into the truth,
who not worshipping the idols... "
so this was affliction... this wasn't a time...
and we'll look at this more in Revelation chapter 9...
Ivor: Let's point out James a verse you pointed out to me
a little bit earlier, let's just read that
in the context of Islam
and their attack on apostate Christianity
and we won't go into detail
but the last verse in Revelation 9:21 says,
"Neither repented they of their murders,
nor of their sorceries,
or their fornication, nor their deeds... "
that ties in with the verse that was just read about Jezebel
and her children not repenting of their deeds
even though they were cast into great tribulation.
James: The one before that...
"the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues
yet repented not of the works of their hands,
that they should not worship devils,
and idols of gold, and silver, brass and stone,
and wood which can neither be seen nor walk nor hear... "
and that goes back to the Old Testament
and all this idol worship that God's people got into
being repeated... that's why Jezebel is being used,
"I'm giving her space to repent, she's not repenting... "
now you got to understand... what we're looking at here...
what Ivor just pointed out is...
this is another recapitulation of the same history,
Revelation 9 are the trumpets... is recapitulating
the same history we're seeing here
in Revelation chapter...
Ivor: And we're checking our interpretation
but using a totally different angle, so let's check it,
are we right? Yeah... look...
James: And another thing we noticed in Revelation 9
is that this judgment comes from a voice
before the four horns of the golden altar...
which is pre-1844... it's the "rock of ages" time...
it's Holy Place time...
so there's now the Sanctuary image that tells us
time and location, where we are in History,
okay, so all we're going now is we're just seeing
how this continues to be confirmed, confirmed, confirmed,
as we go through this... you see...
what people do in the Book of Revelation is,
many times, they will read through the "church" and say,
"Oh, that applies to this... "
and then they'll start in the "seals" and say,
"Now, this has got to be something completely different"
and they start interpreting it and completely...
and then they'll come to the "trumpets... "
"Oh, and this is completely different... "
but the way that this actually interprets and reads is...
is as though I am giving you directions,
you know how it is when you give someone directions
and it can be difficult, you know,
and so you might say to someone...
"Well, yeah, what you do basically... "
if you were to come to my place, I'd say,
"Well, what you do basically... from the airport,
you get on I5... and you go south on I5...
until you hit 126... and when you hit 126,
you're going to take that to Main Street,
when you get to Main Street,
you're just going to go straight through the light
and you're going to be on Jasperville Road
and we're at mile four... that's... that's... that's...
that's the seven churches' directions
okay, so now I'm going to go over to the seven seals
and so now, when you are on I5,
you can drive 60... that's the speed limit
but when you get to 126... it's 55...
when you get on Jasperville Road,
you're going to have to go down to 45...
well, 55 at first but down to 45...
then down to 35 when you get into Jasper and be careful
because a lot of people get tickets right in there
so make sure you get down to 35, okay...
and then again route mile... Marker 4... "
that's the seals, I'm covering the same territory
but I'm giving you now some warning signals,
I'm giving you some speed limit warning signs, okay,
now I'm going to give you the seven trumpets,
now, as you're coming to my location,
you're going to see some big smokestacks,
not smoke... but steam... it's a big plant...
that processes hydro... electricity... and then
when you get to Main Street, there's going to be lights...
and there's going to be one lane going straight
and two lanes going left...
make sure you get in the far right lane
and as you get through there,
you're going to see a river
then you're going to see a bridge
and then you're going to see a store
and as you come past all of that,
you're going to go under a railroad crossing
and you're going to come out
and there's going to see a big wood mill on the left
and there's going to be a school on the right
and we're just past the wood mill...
that's the seven trumpets.
I'm giving you the same direction,
I'm covering the same ground
but I'm giving you different markers,
as you're driving down the road, you are going to go,
"Oh, we must be in the right place
but it seems like... are we there yet?
we're on 126... I don't know... oh, there's the light...
oh... there's the bridge or there's the river
or there's the... yeah... we are... "
if you've gone to mile marker 5,
you've been too far, turn around and go back
and so, this is what we're talking about,
and we're talking about all these different indications here
to give you those directions, in layers
helps you to have more information
about the direction you are going,
God is giving us directions to heaven
and He has given us these directions in layers
so we can have as much information as we want
and we start making the connections,
"Oh yeah, the bridge and the store, and mile marker
and the speed limit sign... and it's all coming together. "
Ivor: Time and location... time and location...
I want to add something here, another marker,
the things that were written for ancient Israel,
are written for our admonition
upon whom the ends of the world are to come,
we saw the first church... purity...
then they lost their first love,
compare that to Adam and Eve... the creation of mankind...
we saw the second church... persecution...
we compare that to the next book, Exodus,
they're in... 400 years of captivity,
we saw the third church...
they had now come out of persecution
but they began to compromise,
we see that with the history of Israel
when they get into the Promise Land,
the fourth church is Jezebel...
land... when the children of Israel get into
the Promise Land and they're there for some time,
guess what happens next in their history?
You have Jezebel, the literal Jezebel...
and this literal Jezebel and Ahab
lead Israel into so much apostasy
that they end up in captivity to a power named "Babylon. "
Yvonne: Wow!
Ivor: This woman, Jezebel, according to Revelation,
her title is "Mystery Babylon. "
James: She brings God's people into captivity... her apostasy.
Ivor: She brings God's people into captivity to Babylon
so literally, in the history of the first four churches,
you have the entire history of the Old Testament
being repeated, which is another checkmark,
yeah, interpretation... correct
because all these checkmarks can't be pointing
to the same thing, by "coincidence. "
Yvonne: Right... right...
James: And then what God is going to do is
to get down into the last epic
which is Revelation chapter 12 all the way through chapter 22,
He's going to do stuff like,
He's going to actually identify now,
He's going to get specific,
He's going to blow it up, so he's going to say,
"Okay, this woman... Mystery Babylon...
identified... she's got a cup... she's... "
the details are spelled out, here it's... it's Jezebel...
she's going to... come into fornication
but then the details are spelled out.
Ivor: We need to mention that her daughters...
"I will kill her children... "
that death represents the daughters...
those churches that come out of her
Yvonne: Apostasy.
Ivor: Exactly and the promise, you know,
in verse 26, it says, "And he that overcometh,
and keepeth my works unto the end,
to him will I give power over the nations:
And he shall rule them with a rod of iron;
as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers:
even as I received of my Father. "
This points us to the fact that
as the nations were persecuting God's people,
during the Dark Ages, God is saying,
"I'm going to give you power over those nations
if you remain faithful to me. "
And then He says, "I'll give him the morning star. "
James: The Morning Star...
and darkness... brings a morning star,
when you see this first star
as it begins to dawn toward morning
and in the context of the Dark Ages,
the Morning Star was John Wycliffe,
John Wycliffe was... was understood
to be the Morning Star of the Reformation
why? he translated the Bible and got the Bible to the people
and, of course, the Morning Star is Christ
and Christ is the Word... and so he's bringing Christ...
bringing the Word to the people...
he was the Morning Star of the Reformation.
So that's basically the...
what we see here in the history of this fourth church
we are indeed out of time... All: laughter...
James: We're just moving through it,
moving through it, moving through it...
but we want questions, we want questions at:
Jason: sss@3abn. org James: sss@3abn. org
Yvonne and Jason: Video questions...
James: Absolutely, all right,
let's close out with word of prayer, Jason...
"Dear Heavenly Father, thank you so much
for allowing us to have another study together,
and as we depart from here,
please don't let
what we've learned depart from our hearts and minds,
please be with everybody that is watching this program
and help them to retain
the information studied as well
and inspire them to study this deeper
than what we've touched today,
we pray all these things in Jesus' name... amen. "
All: "Amen... "