Well, it's good to be back in the Book of Revelation,
we have moved through four of the seven churches,
we have moved from Ephesus to Smyrna to Pergamos to Thyatira
and now we're getting ready to jump into Sardis,
so we've made... we've made a lot of progress
in... in the Book of Revelation
in the last... oh... few sessions together
but we still want to make sure that we're not running too fast,
we want to make sure that we are allowing...
what did Joseph say... or Jacob say?
"The women and the children... " you know... "to keep up with us"
in other words, we consider ourselves...
Ivor and I were talking last night... we're just like,
"Oh, we could be in Revelation 21 by now...
wrrrrrrr... wrrr... wrrr... wrrr... wrrr... "
Jason: Hey, what are you trying to say?
Yvonne: I know... I know...
James: Because we just... we know all the stuff...
we've gone over all this stuff...
and that's why I'm just so thankful that you guys are here
because... we could just be talking
right over top of people's heads...
and just be gone... and you're helping us to
make it clear, to go slowly, to rehash, to recap
so that it's something that anyone watching
can get a hold of it and say,
"Wow, yeah I see that... okay... that makes sense...
and so you're helping... "
Jason: Way to clean it up...
laughter... James: Good take huh...
Yvonne: And dummy it down... James: You're helping...
Ivor: We should add in that part of the reason
why we're going through the seven churches
so slowly is because if you understand the seven churches
you have everything you need
to understand the rest of the Book of Revelation
and so the seven churches are the foundation, right?
Everything after that is just laid over the foundation
so if you can get the seven churches
and understand the history of the seven churches,
everything else after that is just more detail...
James: It's all in your pocket, it's all in your pocket.
Ivor: Yeah, it's nothing new... just more detail...
Yvonne: So it's repeat and enlarge...
Ivor: It's "Repeat and enlarge"
absolutely... absolutely...
James: Ivor, pray for us and we'll get started.
Ivor: Let's pray... "Heavenly Father,
we want to ask that as we open your Word again
that you would continue to give us understanding,
continue to open our eyes
and Father, may we see Christ and Him lifted up...
in all these Scriptures, may we become like you
because ultimately you've given us this book
that we may receive the revelation of Jesus Christ
in ourselves that we might become like Christ
and so, bless us as we open your Word
is our prayer in Jesus' name amen. "
All: "Amen... "
James: All right... pop quiz...
Yvonne: Oh no...
James: Let's go back to the first church
and just tell us what you've learned so far
and Ivor and I can fill in more details if we want to
but just tell us... let's progress from there to fore
and you recap for all of us what we've learned.
Jason: Okay, so, starting with Ephesus...
they lost their first love
so, I remember that part... they lost their first love...
Smyrna... which means bitter sweet, is it myrrh?
James: Hmmm... hmmm... Jason: bitter sweet... myrrh...
Smyrna and Philadelphia...
they were the only two
that didn't have anything that was "negative"
said about them,
Pergamos... is that when the compromise started?
That's when the compromise began...
and then Thyatira... was when Jezebel... the false...
the "prophetess" came about and was teaching false doctrines
and also we learned that persecution purifies the church
and Smyrna was under heavy persecution.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... all right Yvonne,
add to it... what else you've got?
Yvonne: Okay... well... with Ephesus...
Ephesus... I love the way Jesus dealt with Ephesus...
saying, "I know your works... I know this... I know that... "
he's saying, "I see what you've done
but I have somewhat...
not against you... " how did He put it?
James: No, He says, "against you"
Yvonne: oh! "somewhat against you... "
James: Yeah...
Yvonne: "you've lost your first love"
so He doesn't just say,
"Bam, you've lost your first love"
I love the way... again... this is a romantic book,
this is what appeals to me that Jesus is not...
is not just criticizing...
He is trying to bring them to another level,
and He's saying, "I see what you've done... "
James: accentuates the positive...
Yvonne: Yes... yes... and one of the things that...
that I've read is that... when you're dealing with people,
you give like a... what's called the "criticism sandwich" right?
So, you start with the good part...
then in the middle... you hit them with the issue...
and then at the end... you close on the positive
and what Jesus did was He gave them, like,
"I know... I see your works... but you've lost your first love"
so He's loving and kind... even though He's disciplining...
Ivor: And then He offers a reward at the end.
Yvonne: And then He offers... criticisms...
He gives them... the positive, right?
James: Some incentives... Yvonne: Then we move to Smyrna,
and Smyrna and Pergamos were the interim churches
and when we talk about the 70 weeks and the 1,260 years
and the 2,300 days and all that...
I'm still trying to get that... those principles
and you helped yesterday to eliminate that for me,
so, Smyrna... there was heavy persecution
and Myrrh... which...
that whole Smyrna has to do with Myrrh...
Myrrh... in Chinese medicine... was used for pain...
and Frankincense and Myrrh... they were used for pain...
and so, this was... there was pain...
during this time and persecution...
and so, I got that from that
and then Pergamos... was elevated...
the church was elevated in the world
and yet... there was... that was the church where
I don't think there was any... no there were some things...
they had the doctrine of Balaam or Balaam...
and so, and they had the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes
and then when I had done some research on the Nicolaitanes
that I found out about the whole lasciviousness
that they were trying to cover up
and say that God's grace covered all that...
they could do anything that they wanted to do
and then... there was Thyatira and that was the Dark Ages...
and that was where there was so much persecution
and death and killing and so, so it's really...
to me... this is really interesting because
you can actually find a personal application
with each church, that's what I think
I mean... and again, if you're dealing with pain...
like Smyrna... Jesus is the balm...
He is the balm of Gilead so we can...
we can tie Jesus in with every period
of... of... of... with every church...
we can tie Him in and tie us in.
Ivor: Well, it's like every issue that these churches
were going through... that were having issues...
we have faced on a personal level
one way or another...
and He offers a solution to those personal issues
so, idealism...
even though there are historical applications,
there is a historical application...
we don't just leave it at history...
we are to learn from these very experiences
and realize, "Well, I'm going through that,
if I've lost my first love, then...
yeah... I need to return and here's the remedy," so...
James: Jesus Christ is saying to me personally...
and we can find ourselves in the seven churches,
now, we still have three to go,
we can find ourselves in the seven churches
and we can find what God wants for us in the seven churches
and we're going to see that very clearly
when we get into Philadelphia because Philadelphia...
even though that's not the last church...
is the goal for our Christian experience,
it's the church of brotherly love,
so we started in the church of Ephesus,
just filling in a couple of gaps here on the timeline,
so the church of Ephesus is the Apostolic Age,
All: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: Apostolic age... we're going to find
as we nail this down... this "church age" down...
Apostolic age...
then pagan Roman persecution in the Smyrna age...
and then the development of the compromise
of Pergamos and Constantine,
and in Thyatira... full compromise
under the false prophetess, Jezebel...
which is a symbol or representation
of the mixing of the church and state,
and leading people in the wrong direction
we're going to find this history then...
of the seven churches...
it's going to be the same history
that we see in the seven seals
and the same history that we see in the seven trumpets
and the same history that is recapped for us
in Revelation 12 and 13
and then boom... off we go... into end-time prophecy
so all these layers build and bring us into end-time prophecy.
Yvonne: And when you say Apostolic Age...
some might not really realize that it has to do with "Apostle"
the time of the apostles, the early church...
James: Yeah, the first church...
so, once we have the seven churches understood,
all of the other epics... what I mean by that is...
the seals and the trumpets and the last portion...
they're all in our pocket... they're all in our pocket,
we get it... so that's why... when you get to...
we talked about this... when we get to Revelation 14,
you've got the everlasting gospel
the everlasting gospel is not a new idea
in the Book of Revelation,
the everlasting gospel is all through Revelation,
it's right here,
we've been talking about the everlasting gospel,
the everlasting gospel is introducing Jesus
in Revelation 1:1, it's when Jesus says,
"I've loved you
and I've washed you from your sins in my own blood,"
it's when Jesus says,
"Even though you've got major issues, I'm with you,
I'm standing among the candlesticks all seven of them,
that's the everlasting gospel
so the Book of Revelation
is saturated with the everlasting gospel,
and we're going to see it more
and more and more... not less and less,
so when we get to Revelation 14, it's like,
"Here's the summary
of everything we've been talking about
it's the everlasting gospel,
it's going to go to all the world,"
what a beautiful picture.
Yvonne: Amen, it's beautiful.
James: All right, are we ready to move to the next church?
Yvonne: Yeah... yeah...
James: Okay... Sardis...
Jason, take us away with chapter 3
beginning with verse one,
and we're going to read all the way through to verse six,
one through six... chapter 3.
Jason: All right...
"And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write:
These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God,
and the seven stars: I know thy works,
that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.
Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain,
that are ready to die:
for I have not found thy works perfect before God.
Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard,
and hold fast, and repent.
If therefore thou shalt not watch,
I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know
what hour I will come upon thee...
Thou hast a few names even in Sardis
which have not defiled their garments;
and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.
He that overcometh,
the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life,
but I will confess his name before my Father,
and before his angels.
He that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith unto the churches. "
James: Amen... so what we're doing now,
if we're following the sequence, the historical sequence,
is we're moving now into the time of reformation.
Now we... we closed out our last church in our last session
we closed out that last church pretty quickly
but if we go back now to these last verses
in Revelation chapter 2, it says, verse 25,
well, I'll start with verse 24,
"But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira,
as many as have not this doctrine,
which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak:
I will put upon you none other burden.
But that which you have already hold fast till I come.
And he that overcometh, and keep my works unto the end,
to him I will give power over the Nations:
And he shall rule them with a rod of iron;
and the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers:
even as I received of my Father.
And I will give him the morning star.
He that hath an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. "
This is referring to reformers...
this is referring to honest people
that were within the medieval church.
During the time of apostasy, there were men,
there were women who stood for the truth,
Wycliffe is understood to be the Morning Star of the Reformation
and there were many others,
we have Calvin and Luther and Huss and Jerome,
we have many of these reformers...
all of them were in the church, the church...
the Christian church then was one big colossal system,
where there was no other church,
it was just one church and they were part of this
and when they saw the truths of the Bible...
they were raised in a system where they were taught...
and I understand this because I was raised in the same system
where you understand... you're taught certain things
and you're not really aware of what the Bible teaches
and when I was 21,
I got my hands on the Bible for the first time
and began to read the Bible,
and I began to see a major difference between
the religion I was raised...
the Christian religion I was raised in
and the things I was taught to do
and what the Bible actually taught,
what the Book actually said
and so many of these people in this system
came in contact with the Bible...
Martin Luther found one chained to the pulpit,
the Bible wasn't available as much back then,
but he... and as he started reading it,
it was amazing
and he just couldn't wait to share with the church
because he knew all the Leaders...
they'd say, "Oh, yeah, that's what we need to do... "
but they didn't... and so the Reformation begins
and that what it's leading now into the church in Sardis.
Just a quick overview of the church in Sardis,
what we have is... we have Reformers
that are coming out into this light
and they're learning... they're growing...
but they're stopping... they're stopping...
their works aren't made perfect before God
they're not going further...
and if they don't go further and strengthen that which remains
and which is ready to die, it says here,
"You're not going to know what hour I'm going to come upon you"
now, God is not being arbitrary here,
basically, the Reformation has never stopped,
it's never stopped,
the Reformation from darkness had to continue on
and God could only give...
Jesus says to His disciples at one point, he said,
"I've got so many things I want to tell you
but you can't bear them all right now"
and I remember that with me... when I was coming out...
I was learning so fast
but there were things that I didn't understand
and then God says, "I can't... whoa... hold on... "
because sometimes, we want to dump...
we just want to back up to someone
and just dump the whole truck load on them,
everything... can't bear it... it's too much,
and this is what happens with the Reformation
so God is saying basically, "Keep moving forward... "
and, but they stop, many of them stopped, Luther never wanted...
Ivor: They started splintering.
James: Yes, into their little groups,
Luther... he didn't want a Lutheran Church,
he wanted them to keep going...
but they're stopping and what happens then?
If you stop... see what's... what God is leading them to
is, He's leading them to the end of the 2,300-Day Prophecy,
He's leading them to 1844,
He's leading them to the judgment,
He's leading them to a message of judgment,
that's where we're going,
"Well, I'm going to come on you on a day you're not aware"
if you... if you stop... if you are satisfied...
if your works aren't perfect and you are satisfied,
when that judgment message comes,
you're not going to be aware of it,
you're going to turn against it
and that's what a lot of these churches did,
God's people had to come out of them eventually
because... when the judgment came...
and then He says, He promises...
He says now, "If you overcome...
you're going to be clothed with white robes... "
that's judgment talk...
and your name is not going to be blotted out the Book...
that's judgment talk.
Ivor: So, what you can see here is...
remember where we are in this period,
remember, time and location, right?
time... 1,260... location... Holy Place...
you're seeing language now being introduced,
that's pointing us forward
to the next of the three time prophecies
the 2,300 days...
you see, so now we know that the 2,300 days are coming up,
after the fifth church,
we should be looking for events to occur,
that will involve 1844, right, and the Most Holy Place
because we're being introduced to language...
now I'm looking forward to that and saying,
"All right... since we're in the 1,260,
I know that indicators must be coming up
that are going to point me to the 2,300."
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: So that's why we say that these three time markers
are crucial to understanding, they're the... you know...
when you washed clothes back in the old days,
you would hang them on the clothesline,
the time prophecies are the clothesline,
and everything in the Book of Revelation
hangs within the context of one of those three time prophecies.
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm... it's good...
James: So the language we have here about "coming as a thief"
about the white robe,
about not being blotted out of the book...
are all pointing forward to... to judgment,
strengthening those things which remain which are ready to die,
Yvonne: Yeah, look at verse one,
"These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God... "
what are the "seven Spirits of God?"
Why is it seven Spirits as opposed to the...
just saying "the Holy Spirit of God?"
What are the seven Spirits?
Well, one of the things that we can look at here
is Isaiah chapter 11...
Yvonne: Okay...
James: Isaiah chapter 11 points this out also...
it's a prophecy... the whole chapter can be divided in half,
the first half is a prophecy of Christ... Isaiah chapter 11...
and the second half is a prophecy that would apply to us
in the end of time to... what we call "the loud cry"
and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the end of time
and the reason why we can turn to Isaiah 11 is because
this chapter is going to help us
as we move into the next section of Revelation seals
because there's a reference to this again in the seals,
in Isaiah chapter 11 verse 1,
"And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse,
and a Branch... "
now does your Bible have a capital "B" for the Branch?
Yvonne: Yes... James: Okay, because that's
referring to Jesus... " a Branch shall grow out of his roots,"
now, Jesse was the father of...?
Yvonne: David...
okay... so the "Branch" that comes out of this root of Jesse,
the root of Jesse... is referring to David...
it's coming out... but really it's referring to Christ
because Christ is the root of David...
the bright and Morning Star, okay, so...
the "Branch" that's coming out here is referring to Christ
and that goes on in verse 2
to describe what would be Christ's experience,
it says, "The spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him... "
okay, that's number one, "the spirit of God,"
"the spirit of wisdom" two...
"spirit of understanding" three...
"of counsel" four... "of might" five...
"the spirit of knowledge" six...
and "of the fear of the Lord" seven...
what it's talking about here is that the seven-fold spirit
is simply the complete spirit of God,
the complete spirit of God,
now Isaiah picks it up and breaks it down...
the spirit of knowledge, the spirit of understanding,
the spirit of counsel, the spirit of might,
he breaks it down and he says...
"But really, it's just the full-fold Spirit of God
is going to rest upon Jesus... "
He was filled with the Holy Spirit, okay, so,
He is the one that's being referred to
in Sardis, it says here...
"And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write;
these things saith he that has the seven Spirits of God... "
well, who is that? That's Jesus...
Yvonne: Hmmm... James: that's the Branch...
He's got the seven Spirits of God,
He's got the completeness... He's filled with the complete
fullness of God's Spirit.
Yvonne: "In Him was the fullness of the Godhead... "
James: Yes... yes...
now you know, we have the Spirit of God,
Peter had the Spirit of God
when Peter said to Jesus when he asked,
"Who do men say that I am?"
Peter said, "They say... "
Jesus said, "Well, who do you say I am?"
Peter said, "You're the Messiah"
and Jesus said, "Oh, flesh and blood hasn't taught that to you
but the Holy Spirit has been teaching that to you"
and then a few verses later Jesus says,
"I have to go to the cross and Gethsemane... "
and Peter says, "No, far be it from you Lord"
and Jesus said, "Get behind me, Satan... "
so we have the Spirit of God, the Spirit of God teaches us...
we have the Spirit of God that teaches us knowledge...
but we also have some issues...
we have some issues... but Jesus doesn't have any issues...
see, He's got the... in fact... in the context of this verse...
it says, verse 3,
"And shall make him of quick understanding
in the fear of the Lord: and he shall not judge
after the sight of his eyes,
neither reprove after the hearing of his ears:
But with righteousness shall he judge the poor... "
so, when the woman is caught in adultery... in the very act,
and she's brought before Jesus
and the Pharisees quote the Bible and say...
"Moses said she should be stoned... what do you say?"
And He has the Spirit of God... see... and so He says,
"Let me just pause here,
I just want to write something out in the sand... "
He starts writing down in the sand...
because He knows the whole situation...
He's filled with the Spirit...
and it's the same with us,
God wants to fill us with the Spirit
so we can take in the whole situation
and not just a little bit of what we see with our eyes...
or a little bit of what we hear with our ears,
so we can judge righteously... that's what...
so when we look at Sardis now, the person that's...
that's looking... he's looking at the Reformers,
this is a great... you know...
how can we find fault with the Reformers?
But Jesus has the full Spirit of God,
so He can say, "You're doing good...
you've got some areas... we...
but I haven't found your works perfect,
there are some areas where you're slipping... "
the same thing he said to Peter
now He's saying it right here
so the reference to the Spirit of God
is helping us to understand that Jesus sees everything,
He's got full wisdom, full knowledge, full might...
He's able to discern the whole picture,
we look up at their performance and say,
"Oh, they were great people... "
well yeah, but they had some problems
and Jesus is point out those problems.
I'm going to try to share something here that
if we don't cover it fully here,
we'll pick it up in our next program...
but we want to cross check...
remember how we've been cross checking with history
so, this power entity that Sardis is described
as coming out of, right...
is symbolically represented as Jezebel which is Babylon...
and so what you have here is...
the Reformers are coming out of Babylon
and they are bringing the process of reformation
okay, so let's go back to what we saw in the churches...
first church... we saw pointed us to the perfect church
that eventually fell from their first love,
reminds us of Adam and Eve,
second church... persecution reminds us of the next book...
the Book of Exodus...
the children of Israel in captivity,
the next church... compromise...
we saw that that's exactly what happened
when the children of Israel entered the Promise Land...
they began to compromise,
fourth church... Jezebel... Babylon...
we saw that right in line with Old Testament history,
the children of Israel... because of their compromise
ended up in Babylonian captivity...
the fifth church...
Martin Luther basically makes a decree... if you will...
he nails the theses on the door
and as a result... people start to leave Babylon
the support of Babylon begins to dry up, if you will,
they leave Babylon
because they're going to begin a work of Reformation,
well, guess what happens in Old Testament history?
James: Same thing...
Ivor: Same thing... a decree is made by a man named Cyrus
who opens the gates of Babylon to set the captives free
so that they can go back and begin the work of reformation...
begin the work of building the house of the Lord,
so there's just an amazing parallel but guess what happens?
When they go back to build the house of the Lord,
Nehemiah... years later...
wants to know the situation of Jerusalem and guess what?
He asked, "What about those who have escaped from Babylon,
what's the situation there?"
And what does he hear?
"They're building their own houses
while the house of the Lord is still in ruins. "
James: That's what we're seeing right here.
Ivor: What happened with the Reformation,
everyone started building their own houses...
James: All Denominations...
Ivor: God intended for one house but the Reformers
they went on with it and they would stop...
James: They're Followers... specifically...
Ivor: Exactly... they're followers, exactly,
they're followers... stop...
and so now you have all these different houses...
James: Denominations... Ivor: Denominations...
James: They all have a little something...
Ivor: They all have a little something...
but the house of the Lord is being neglected
so we know that whatever happens with the next church,
has to deal with... the house of the Lord...
bringing everyone into one house...
Yvonne: Wow! this is giving me chills...
really, because it's something, it's a way of looking at it
that I haven't...
James: That brings the whole Bible together...
Ivor: Absolutely... Yvonne: Yeah...
James: So we've just cross checked it...
Ivor: We know that our interpretation is right
because it's following the history
of the Old Testament to a "T... "
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm... James: Hmmm... hmmm...
Ivor: So if you know the history of the Old Testament,
you have everything you need
to understand the whole Book of Revelation.
And I know people are...
that going to be listening to this are going to be saying,
"Yes!" just like you're saying... "yeah, this is great,
I got to... I got to... but I've got a question...
I've got a question, I've got a question. "
Jason: Then they need to send a video of their question
to sss@3abn. org
sss... "S" as in Salvation and Symbols and Signs...
at 3abn. org
James: Amen, this is really awesome,
I mean, I just want to say, "I don't use that word for food,
I don't use that word for people,
I use that word for the Word of God
and the truths of God's Word, this is awesome...
what we're studying is awesome, God is awesome.
Yvonne: Yes... He is...
James: And the way this is all coming together
it's just beautiful to me,
I think this is definitely a "Holy Spirit work"
that's working right now,
helping us to understand these Scriptures
and bringing them forth in a way
that ties the whole Bible together
and gives a meaning to them. Yvonne: Yes...
James: So we're going to close out our session
with a word of prayer, Yvonne, would you pray for us?
Yvonne: Yes... "Father God, what a privilege it's been
to open your Word and to gain new elements from it,
I mean, every time we open it,
there's something new to be gained,
we can never learn enough and so we thank you God,
we thank you for your presence, we thank you for your power,
we thank you for your love,
thank you God for being in our midst
and continue to guide us
and continue to guide these discussions
so that we might come to an understanding
of your Word, amen. "
All: "Amen... "