We are still in Sardis,
okay, we left off in Sardis... we're still in Sardis
and we're going to recap a little bit,
I think it would be good for us to pick up
a little bit where we left off
before we move into Philadelphia the church of Brotherly Love,
there's a connection here, there's a great connection
and we've looked at some of the symbols
and what they are telling us about what is to come
and what has happened and where we are
and it's... it's a beautiful picture
that is listed out here in the Scriptures,
I love the way it's all tying together
with the rest of the Bible
and bringing us to... this Book...
and I've said this before and I'll say it again,
is a masterpiece,
the Book of Revelation is a masterpiece.
Only God could have written this book
and it's... it's taking... and I'll just say...
in these words, in the Book of Revelation
the entire Bible meets and ends, okay...
and I'm borrowing those words but those are powerful words
that are helping us to understand
what this Book really means to us as a people.
So, let's jump in...
Yvonne, can you have a word of prayer for us
and we'll jump right in.
Sure, "Father, thank you so much
for allowing us to study your Word and giving us insight
Lord, we just praise you, Lord God,
because we need your insight and your guidance
so we thank you for that,
we invite you to be with us, Lord,
you are welcome in this place
thank you again, in Jesus' name, amen. "
All: "Amen... "
So Sardis means escaping... that's what the word means...
and the timeframe of this church is from about 1517...
that's the time of the 95 Theses... Martin Luther,
et cetera to about 1798...
this was the time of the Reformation,
now we know that because we looked at the previous verses
in the church of Thyatira
and we noticed that they were promised the Morning Star,
John Wycliffe was the Morning Star of the Reformation,
why? Because Christ is the Morning Star
and He brought the Bible to the people
and the Bible... the Word of God is Christ,
it's a revelation of Christ, in fact, in John 1 it says,
"the Word was with God and the Word was God
and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. "
Ivor: So to clarify, you said Wycliffe brought the Bible
to the people which is a revelation of Jesus Christ
which is bringing Christ to the people... yeah...
James: Yes, yes... and so we have that promise that was made
at Thyatira... that promise is realized in Sardis
but what we have in Sardis is we have
kind of a hesitation or a stopping point...
slowing down of God's purpose,
see, God wants to bring His church out of darkness
into this light and He wants... as it says in Proverbs,
He wants the path of the just to be as a shining light
that shines more and more unto the perfect day.
Well, the first thing He says to the church of Sardis is
I haven't found your works perfect,
in other words, you haven't been shining more and more,
you've stopped,
and we talked about that with the Denominations
and how that they had kind of splintered
and everyone had their little thing that they were emphasizing
of course, Martin Luther... "righteousness by faith,"
the Baptists... "baptism by immersion,"
Calvinists... Methodists... all these little groups
hunkered around these individuals was not God's will,
so God is pointing forward now to a time when He is going to
bring them into accountability
and bring a message that's going to call them
out of all these little splinter groups
into one church and so we see these phrases like...
for example... "your garments...
you'll walk with me in white
and you will not be blotted out of the Book... "
the Lamb's book of life
is what this is talking about... the Book of Life,
these are phrases that are pointing to a judgment
they are phrases that are pointing
to a time of accountability
and that's what we're going to see in the progression of time,
we've come from the early Apostolic church,
then this time of persecution and this time of compromise
bringing us into the Dark Ages, coming out of the Dark Ages
and now bringing us toward... through the Reformers...
toward a judgment...
Ivor: Right... right...
Yvonne: There are two things that kind of jump out at me,
one is... that the name
will not be blotted out of the Book of Life,
to me... that...
the whole idea of "once saved... always saved... "
this contradicts that because
if your name is in the Book of Life...
James: you're saved... Yvonne: you're saved...
if your name is not in the Book of Life... you're not...
and your name can be blotted out because Jesus says,
"He that overcometh,
the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot out his name... "
so your name can be blotted out.
James: And that's the only verse you need,
that's the only verse you would need.
James: I mean, there are many verses in the Bible...
there are many verses in the Bible
but that would be... just that one would be sufficient,
the idea of "once saved... always saved"
is based upon truth and the truth of the matter is...
is that God has an everlasting gospel
that's more powerful
than anything on Planet Earth that Satan can bring against us,
so when you put your life in the hand of God,
He's got you and He's never going to let you go
but that does not violate our choice,
we can choose to turn away from that gospel
and to turn away from Jesus and unfortunately,
many people have done that down through time
and Jesus is warning about... even the Reformers can do that.
Ivor: So, if you remember the first church we looked at
it was the perfect church but then it lost its first love,
remember that Lucifer was once...
James: "saved... "
Ivor: Saved... he was once saved James: In heaven...
James: Was he always saved? Ivor: Once saved...
he's not saved now...
so if... if a perfect angel could fall
from the... the grace of God,
fall from his position, then... what makes us think
that us... you see what I'm saying?
"Oh yeah, well God's not going to... "
that's the mistake that Lucifer and angels made in heaven,
"God's not going to do anything, we can do whatever we want to do
there's going to be no consequences and what happened?
They were cast out of heaven and so... just looking at the...
again... the history...
even though what occurred in heaven,
should be enough to... to show that
the idea of "once saved... always saved"
is not in accordance with the Scriptures.
Now, number two...
about the Bible that you've been bringing out,
what does that teach us about "once saved... always saved?"
Ivor: That's right, you actually look at these chosen people
in the time of Christ they were like,
"Hey! we're Abraham's seed,
once we're Abraham's seed,
Jesus... there's nothing that even you can do about it. "
James: "Once saved... always saved"
was one of the biggest mistakes the Jewish nation made
that ideology is one of the biggest mistakes they made.
Yvonne: "We are the chosen forever... "
James: Yeah "and there's nothing that can happen to change that"
and so, what Ivor was bringing out here...
when we go back and... we are informed...
the Book of Revelation informs us of...
we're informed by the Bible...
the history of the Bible informs us
concerning the Book of Revelation
so what else does it inform us about this question right here?
We see it over and over again, these nations that are chosen,
people that are chosen... Saul... Solomon... these others
and of course, we recognize in their experience
the fact that God is merciful and I want to...
I don't want to close this on the negative...
I want to close it on the positive
so I want to bring out Manasseh for example,
wicked King... he was after Ahab...
Ahab was bad... you think Ahab was bad...
Manasseh was worse, so bad...
and God took him... I mean... sent him to Babylon...
took him to Babylon... it was...
and if you look at... because there's two records...
of "repeat and enlarge... "
there are two records of his history...
one is in Kings... the other is in Chronicles...
if you read Kings... Manasseh is lost...
he was taken captive... he's done...
you read Chronicles... after he's taken captive
he turns his face to the Lord,
he repents and the Lord restores him
and takes him back to Israel... back to Judah...
and he fortifies and then he knew that the Lord was God.
Ivor: So, once lost... not always lost...
James: Yes... that's what I wanted to say.
Ivor: And once saved... not always saved...
James: Yes... Yvonne: Come on... I love it...
Jason: Now, the whole thing,
Lucifer... falling out of heaven and all that...
it shows how dangerous pride is
because if he would have repented and truly been sorry
for what he's done, God would have forgiven him.
Ivor: Absolutely...
because God is the same yesterday and today and forever,
but it was not like, God was like,
"I'm not going to offer you mercy... " no...
but he rejected that mercy.
Jason: He was so proud that... James: He was unwilling...
Yvonne: The second thing that
I just want to bring out from this
was... a lot of people say... "I read the Bible...
why do we have so many Denominations?"
Like, "Why isn't it just clear, why can't I just read the Bible
and know... this is where I'm supposed to be?"
I've had... I know people who wonder
about why all the Denominations?
This answers that... this addresses that...
James: This history addresses that...
Yvonne: And I never knew that it was alluded to...
in the church of Sardis, the Reformation...
the Reformers stopped
at a certain point and didn't continue,
that's why we have all these Denominations.
James: And if you... oh, go ahead...
Ivor: I was going to say I think it's a good place actually
to recap that history
and that will kind of launch us into the Philadelphia church
because these two churches actually go together,
they are like bookends
so, we saw that the first four churches,
Ephesus started out pure but lost its first love,
that reminds us of Adam and Eve, the creation of man... perfect,
but then they fell from grace... lost their first love,
second church... Smyrna...
points us to the period of persecution in the early church
and that reflects the history of persecution
among God's people in Egypt that's in the Book of Exodus,
then we saw the third church as where...
the church comes out of persecution
and now they are beginning to compromise "in good times,"
just as Old Testament Israel enters into the Promised Land,
escapes out of captivity, enters the Promised Land
and they begin to compromise in the very same way,
they choose a king over their Priest
just as... the early church... chose Constantine
to be protected by Rome over their High Priest...
Jesus Christ in heaven.
The Fourth Church...
we saw... pointing us to that power called Babylon,
just as... because of the compromise
this woman, Jezebel, ends up dominating the church
in the same way the Old Testament history
you have the Children of Israel...
because of their compromise in the Promise Land,
end up in Babylonian captivity
perfect parallel...
James: By the way it was Ahab and Jezebel
for whom the final judgment was brought...
because of their apostasy
even though we read it, the Bible said,
"I'm going to wait till he passes... till he dies...
but I'm still going to bring that judgment... "
and that judgment was Babylonian captivity.
Ivor: They... they... instigated...
they brought upon the Nation of Israel that judgment.
Ivor: So it's no... it's no "chance thing"
that Jezebel herself is mentioned in this church...
Ivor: Within that context, absolutely...
and that's like, Chronicles, Kings...
right after Chronicles and Kings you have the Book of Ezra
and the Book of Ezra talks about Cyrus...
this man named Cyrus... who comes as a Deliverer,
he makes a decree which basically dries up Babylon,
the rivers of Babylon are dried up,
the people leave Babylon, he opens the gates of Babylon,
so that the people can leave and go back
to build spiritual Jerusalem.
Guess what we just learned about Sardis?
Martin Luther makes a "decree" if you will,
against that power described as Babylon
people start to leave her, what is the task?
To go back to build spiritual Jerusalem
God's house, but what did we find?
We found that when they went there,
it's interesting... in the Book of Nehemiah,
Nehemiah enquires about those who had "escaped"
and he used the word, "escaped"
what does Sardis mean? James: Escape...
Ivor: The ones escaping...
Yvonne: Wow! Ivor: The ones escaping...
and so, he wants to know the condition,
what's going on with them?
What does he find out?
That they went there and the House of the Lord
is still not built,
they were beginning to build their own houses...
building their own houses...
while the House of the Lord lay desolate.
James: And so you have all these different houses here,
you have all these different Denominations
and now God wants to bring us out of that
and it reminds me of my own experience,
this is practical and it's personal,
I was raised a Catholic so I come into this
in the Dark Ages... inexperience...
I come into this in the Dark Ages,
I'm an Altar Boy, I go to church every week,
I go to Catholic School, I'd say my prayers every night,
as I grow up and become a teenager,
I'm "Catholic" by name only
and I'm saying my prayers every night
whether I'm drunk or sober,
I'm going to Confession every once in a while
when I go back to see my mom in England
but I'm not really into the Word of God
and I'm not really connected with Jesus,
then as I turn 21...
I go through this incredible experience...
this conversion experience and I accept Christ as my Savior
and I have people that have been witnessing to me at work
and I join this non-denominational church
and I start going to a Pentecostal Church
and these folk... Ivor: You enter Sardis...
James: Yeah... I go through this incredible change
and I'm growing and I'm just hungry for the Word of God
and of course in the Pentecostal church
there's an emphasis on the gifts of the Spirit
which is a good thing... I mean...
we want the gifts of the Spirit
in the church that should be there
in the non-denominational church,
there's an emphasis on basic relationship with Christ,
baptism, forgiveness,
that kind of thing, so I'm into that,
but then my sister comes on the scene
and she's been studying with this other denomination
that is teaching her things
that are totally weird in my understanding.
Ivor: Almost like Philadelphia.
James: Yes, one of the things that she's teaching me about...
she's telling me about is,
that you should go to church on Saturday.
"Church on Saturday!" I'm thinking, "That is crazy,"
I'm thinking... and the thing is...
is that a lot of people who would hear that, because I know,
a lot of my friends I shared that with later...
there were just like, "No way... "
they are not even going to follow up on it
but I followed up on it,
I went to the Word of God and the point is...
is that this admonition is,
"Go to the Word of God and follow the Word of God. "
Martin Luther started by following the Word of God,
Wycliffe started by preaching the Word of God,
Calvin, Zwingli, Huss, Jerome...
all these Reformers... Knox... all of them...
looking at the Word of God,
Tyndale translating it into the language
of the common people in England,
and these people are getting the Word of God
and they're following the Word of God...
and when they find things in the Word of God,
they're being persecuted for that thing
and so they isolate themselves
but now God is bringing all of those little things,
these little truths together in one Denomination
and as I'm looking at the Word of God
and I'm saying, "Wow! the Sabbath is in the Word of God,
the seventh day is the... Saturday is the seventh day,
it is the Sabbath, it's the Lord's Day... "
I didn't realize that, so the thing that...
that God is bringing to us now
as we get into the Philadelphia Church,
Philadelphia begins in about 1798, it means, "Brotherly Love"
it is the missionary age, it brings us to
what we understand to be,
in history, the Millerite Movement
and it brings us to an experience of love
that is God given... God breathed...
that causes us to just want to be all out for God,
whether it's missionary work... whether it's following the Word
and I remember, all the evidence that I had
all of the things that people shared with me,
all of the warnings, "Don't become an Adventist,"
all of the encouragement, "follow the Word of God... "
I remember the one thing that hit home with me
was when I read the words of Jesus,
"If you love me, keep my commandments"
and I was in love with Jesus, I was in love with Jesus
and that is where we find this church of Philadelphia,
it's all about love,
the love relationship is being restored completely and totally
in the Philadelphian Church.
So, let's read those verses, Jason, read those verses for us
of the Philadelphian Church, begins in verse 7 of chapter 3
and let's read all the way down to verse 13.
Jason: All right...
"And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write;
These things saith he that is holy,
he that is true, he that hath the key of David,
he that openeth and no man shutteth;
and shutteth, and no man openeth;
I know thy works: behold I have set before thee
an open door, and no man can shut it;
for thou has a little strength, and hast kept my word,
and hast not denied my name.
Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan,
which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie;
behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet,
and to know that I have loved thee.
Because thou has kept the word of my patience,
I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation,
which shall come upon all the world,
to try them that dwell upon the earth.
Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast,
that no man take thy crown.
Him that overcometh will I make a pillar
in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out:
and I will write upon him the name of my God,
and the name of the city of my God,
which is new Jerusalem,
which cometh down out of heaven from my God:
and I will write upon him my new name.
He that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith unto the churches. "
James: Amen... Jason you do an excellent job reading,
I just want to say that every word... every word...
this is beautiful, this is powerful,
this is the experience God wants us to have,
this is renewed love experience and I don't know...
there were a few phrases in here,
I'm not sure that you caught them
but there's one phrase that I just wanted to highlight
and that is... did you notice where He said,
He mentioned again,
"Those which are in the synagogue of Satan
will say they are Jews and are not... "
do you remember that from a previous church?
All: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: There's a previous church where that same phrase is used,
"those who say they're Jews and they're not... "
Smyrna... now what does Smyrna and Philadelphia have in common?
Ivor: No rebuke... James: No rebuke...
when you're undergoing persecution
and when you are filled with brotherly love
and what happens is... when you're undergoing persecution,
a demarcation takes place,
a distinction takes place
between those who say they're Jews...
and we're talking about spiritual Jews now,
who say they're true followers of Christ
and are not... and when you're filled with brotherly love,
a demarcation... a distinction takes place
between those who say they're followers of Christ and are not,
these are the two churches that that phrase is used in
because there are the two experiences
that show the difference between those who say they are
and those who say they aren't, really important.
Ivor: Absolutely, so this history then
points us to... as we talked about the Millerite Movement
which would bring us down to that time prophecy
of 1844... so again if we're looking at
our time markers... 70 Weeks... 1,260... 2,300...
church number 6 introduces us to that 2,300-Day Prophecy, right?
Actually it brings us to the close of the 1,260
and moves us forward to the 2,300-Day Prophecy
and in that Movement, the focus was the Sanctuary
and the cleansing of the Sanctuary
which brings us into what?
The understanding that we have just moved
from Holy Place to Most Holy Place, right?
Now see that that's happening at the end of the 7 churches
right? It's not in church number 2 or church number 1
or church number 4 or 5,
it's happening in church number 6
so we know when we get to church number 7,
we are in the... we are in the time of judgment,
we are in the 2,300-Day Prophecy...
James: Post 1844... Ivor: Absolutely...
and the purpose of the Philadelphia church
was to bring unity...
it gathered together all the people into one Movement,
we understand that Movement to be the end-time Movement,
the Remnant who keep the commandments of God
and have the faith of Jesus and what they did was
they built the house of the Lord.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... love it...
Ivor: now here's why this is interesting...
because remember... remember our history check right?
We always want to cross check what we're coming up with
so let's go back to the history once more
and we just laid out, first church, second church,
third church, fourth church,
fifth church... we saw...
that under this decree from Cyrus,
Ezra and others went forth to do this work
but after a while... the work waned, right?
So, what happens?
Everyone is like focusing on their own houses,
this Reformation begins but it dies out
so who does God bring up on the scene?
He brings up on the scene a man by the name of Nehemiah.
Nehemiah has been called to do what?
Finish the work... so what does Nehemiah do?
He goes to Jerusalem, he sees all that is broken down
and he gathers the people together
to unite upon finishing the work
and if you read Nehemiah chapter 2,
you'll see one word appearing over and over and over,
repair, repair, repair, repair...
well, guess what God's people are called?
James and Yvonne: The repairers of the breach...
Ivor: The repairers of the breach, Isaiah 58...
so let me share some things with you very quickly
that happened in the Book of Nehemiah.
In Nehemiah, there are people who are trying to hinder
the work of rebuilding the city.
Yvonne: Tobiah and Sanballat.
Ivor: Absolutely, right? They are under persecution,
under persecution the people come together,
they got a sword in one hand and a hammer in the other,
they're focused on their work, all the people are of one mind.
Within this story,
it's in Nehemiah chapter 7 verse 64
it tells us there
that there is like a roll call
and all whose names are not found on the genealogy,
are put away from the priesthood as polluted.
Almost like this work of judgment begins to occur,
okay... Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: This is absolutely amazing in Nehemiah 7 verse 67 and 68,
it tells us that roughly about 50,000 people
were a part of this Reformation, I don't know if you...
well, I asked this question a little bit earlier before
so, how many people were a part of the Millerite Movement?
who came out of the... these other churches to participate?
50,000 people... James: 50,000 people...
Yvonne: Wow!
Ivor: Nehemiah chapter 8,
the Law is brought before the people
and read in their hearing so that they can understand,
in this Philadelphia Movement, the Law is given preeminence,
in other words, the Law is brought to...
to the minds of the people, in Nehemiah chapter...
chapter 10, there is a sealing...
there is a sealing that occurs in Nehemiah chapter 10,
well, guess what? That points us to the fact
that we can look and see, you know what?
A sealing work begins to take place
and I shouldn't even use the word, "begin'
but a sealing work is made prominent
within the end-time church and then the last thing you see
is that in Nehemiah chapter 13 there is Sabbath Reformation.
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm...
so when you look at all these things happening
under the rule of Nehemiah and you compare it
historically with what's happening
in the Philadelphia Church, it's beyond words.
Yvonne: Wow!
James: It fits because the Philadelphia Church
remember... takes us past 1844 to the 1850s,
It's not till 1850s that we start seeing this transition
into the Laodicean experience, so during the Millerite Movement
and beyond... into the 1840s... the Sabbath is discovered
judgment, of course, is proclaimed,
you have the 42,000
I think it was in the Book of Nehemiah,
you have 50,000... Ivor: 42,000 plus 7,000 others.
James: Okay, so it's almost 50,000...
James: it's 42,300... plus another...
Ivor: It's 49,924...
Laughter... Yvonne: Wow!
James: It's amazing how this is all coming together
and when you look at the church of Philadelphia,
this is the experience that God wants us to...
He never intended that we would
fall into the Laodicean condition,
of course, God foresaw that... He sees that...
He understands that... He knows that experience...
but He wants us to actually experience the repentance,
we'll talk about that... in the Laodicean message
the repentance that brings us back
to this Brotherly Love experience
and the Brotherly Love Experience will also coincide
with the Smyrna persecution in the end of time
so both of those experiences
will be the experiences of God's true people in the end of time
and that's Idealism... Ivor: Absolutely.
James: that's understanding the history of these churches,
how each one has a certain age that it applies to
but the principles of that history... always apply
to every... all of God's people.
Ivor: We can even say now that today,
there are people in Thyatira, there are others in Sardis...
but our mission is to pull them into Philadelphia
right, and then prepare them for Laodicea.
James: Right... Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: So if it all ties in together
in so many different ways, you see these patterns
that just show the gospel from like 360 degrees.
Ivor: That's what we're doing, we're like a camera
moving around the Bible...
moving around the Book of Revelation...
and showing it from several different angles.
Yvonne: Oh! I love it.
James: And that's what the Book of Revelation does,
it naturally brings us right into this...
this place where we can see
the 360 degree angle of the entire Bible.
Revelation forces us
by using these symbols and these phrases,
forces us to go back and look at the history of the Bible
and to go back and look at the history of the church
and to bring it all together so you can see the...
God doesn't want us to forget any of the past,
not in the Old Testament
and not in the history of the Nations...
Ivor: They were written for our admonition.
Ivor: "Upon whom the ends of the world are come. "
James: We are out of time. Yvonne: Wow...
James: What are we going to tell people
who want to ask questions?
Jason: That they need to send their video submissions
to sss@3abn. org
that's sss like Salvation in Symbols and Signs
at 3abn. org
James: Jason, pray for us, take us out.
Jason: "Dear Heavenly Father, thank you so much
for this beautiful love story that we're learning about
thank you so much for equipping us with signs of the times
and making it in a format that we can comprehend
with due diligence and prayer and studying...
please be with the people at home
and inspire them to do their due diligence as well
and allow this program to be a blessing to them,
in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: "Amen... "