We don't want to go too fast, we don't want to go too fast...
we're having an excellent journey,
an excellent experience in the Book of Revelation
and I believe that we don't really have an agenda...
a timetable... we want to go back now, I think
and... and... look in more detail
at the verses concerning the Philadelphia Church,
now, there are two reasons we want to do that,
one is... there's still a lot here to cover,
there's still a lot here we need to understand
and number two is... this is our ultimate destiny...
Philadelphia is our ultimate destiny,
Laodicea is the age in which we live,
that's... that's just par for the course
but if we're going to be able to deal with Laodicea and that age,
if we're going to be able to escape and understand
how it is that God wants us to get out of that condition...
that Laodicean condition, you know,
He's knocking on the door, Philadelphia is the goal...
Philadelphia is the goal...
God isn't leading us out of Laodicea into nothing,
He's leading us out of Laodicea
back into this experience of Brotherly Love
so, I want us to go through these verses together
and just try to understand some of these phrases
and, of course, we need the...
we need to have a word of prayer first
because the Holy Spirit is going to be our teacher,
so, Jason, would you have a word of prayer for us?
All right, "Dear Heavenly Father thank you for another day
of life that we can study your word,
not only do we need you here but we want you here,
so please be with us today
as we study Revelation
and help us to be able to retain the information
that we studied, in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: "Amen... "
So, just this first verse,
"To the angel in the church of Philadelphia write;
these things saith he that is holy
he that is true, he that has the key of David,
he that opens, and no man shuts; and shuts, and no man opens... "
What's that talking about? "The Key of David... "
Ivor: So, as we look this verse and listen to Christ saying,
"I have the key of David,"
I think it's important for us to understand
what the key of David is, so let's go back to Isaiah 22,
and in Isaiah 22, beginning with verse 1,
the Bible says there,
Isaiah 22 beginning with verse 21,
it says, "I will clothe him with thy robe,
and strengthen him with thy girdle,
and I will commit thy government into his hand:
and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and to the house of Judah.
And the key of the house of David
will I lay upon his shoulder; so he shall open,
and none shall shut;
and he shall shut, and none shall open. "
James: That's exactly the same language
that we find in Revelation.
Ivor: Absolutely, absolutely, absolutely,
so, when we think of this... the key represents
"having access to... "
to open up and when you think
of something that's locked, you don't have access to it
so Christ is telling us here,
"I'm giving you access to something... "
right? so what's He giving us access to?
Well, the key of David is the key of the Government,
"the government shall be upon his shoulders,"
so let's go back to Isaiah chapter 9...
James: But let me add something to that,
because I think, it's appropriate right here too
and that is when Jesus was talking to the lawyers
and the lawyers in Luke chapter 11...
the lawyers... that word "lawyer" means,
"someone who is an expert according to the law,
the Legal Laws, Ceremonial Laws,
an expert in the Mosaic Law... "
in other words, the law of Moses,
that included all of the laws, He says to them...
He says... "You have the key
and you're not letting people enter in... "
let me just read the verse
because I think... the verses is is pretty clear,
"Woe to you, lawyers!
for you have taken away the key of knowledge,
you have entered not in yourselves,
and them that were entering in you have hindered. "
So the key is the government...
is the key... is also the key of knowledge...
in other words... God wants to open to us knowledge
He wants to open up to us a revelation of His Government,
He wants to take us further in understanding of the law...
the Mosaic Law... the Ceremonial Laws...
all of that...
and I think that's connected to the Sanctuary,
He wants to take us further in our understanding of this,
Jesus says, "You closed it up...
you lawyers have closed it up... " but now He says,
"I have that key and I'm going to open it,
I'm going to give you more knowledge. "
Ivor: Look at Isaiah 9, verse 6 and 7,
it says this, "For unto us a child is born,
unto us a son is given: and the government
shall be upon his shoulders... " we just read that in Isaiah 22,
Ivor: "his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor,
The mighty God, The everlasting Father,
The Prince of Peace.
And of the increase of his government
and peace there shall be no end,
upon the throne of David,
and upon his kingdom, to order it,
and to establish it with judgment and with justice
from henceforth even for ever.
The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. "
So, I think of it this way... the verse you just read, James,
about the key of knowledge... not letting people enter in...
a key opens up a door which leads to a particular path
or a particular way, you shut that door,
you cannot enter, Jesus said, "I am the door,"
right? and He says, He invites us to follow Him
so that key really opens up the way of God to us,
so that we can enter in and walk in that way,
well, guess where the way of God is found?
It is found in the Sanctuary... "Thy way of God... "
James: "is in the Sanctuary... "
Ivor: The way you do things, the way your government operates
James: The plan of salvation.
Ivor: The plan of salvation, everything...
the entire Scripture...
your understanding the entire key to knowledge
is the key to the sanctuary,
so David said, "even with the wicked,
I didn't understand their end, until I went into the sanctuary"
James: Psalm 73 verse17...
Ivor: Psalm 73 verse 17...
"I didn't understand the end of the wicked
till I went into the sanctuary,"
so the Sanctuary reveals the way of God...
the Government of God...
by-the-way... that's where God's throne is
and the throne is the symbol of His Government,
so when Jesus says to the Philadelphia church,
"I have the key of David... "
He's saying, "I have something special for you
that will open up an understanding for you
about how my Government operates
and guess what was given to the Philadelphian church?
They received an understanding of God's heavenly Government
by understanding the Sanctuary message.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: And it's really interesting too because,
because, it says,
"I'm going to open this door and no man can shut it,"
so the implication here is...
is that people tried to shut it...
people tried to shut out this knowledge,
people are still trying to shut out this knowledge,
in other words,
when you look at the history of the Millerite Movement,
you see that they went through a
devastating disappointment in 1844...
and we're going to look at that more
when we get further into Revelation,
it's really identified and magnified in Revelation 10
but it's touched on right here,
and what happened when they went through this devastation
was... people kind of mocked the message and they said,
"Ah, that wasn't true... " and they said,
"No, it was true, it had to be true,"
and then they realized that...
that their disappointment was based on a misunderstanding
of the Sanctuary... and so, this is the promise,
I want to open up your understanding,
I'm going to give you the key to knowledge,
I'm going to give you the key of the Government of God...
I'm going to help you understand this Sanctuary,
before this time, most Christians believed
the Sanctuary was the earth
and the idea that the Sanctuary was going to be cleansed
at the end of the 2,300 days,
was taken to mean that Jesus was coming back
to cleanse the earth with fire from sin and sinners,
the misunderstanding was, the Sanctuary was the earth,
the Bible teaches that the Sanctuary is in heaven
and that Jesus now is opening the door
into a further understanding of this Sanctuary truth
by taking us from the Holy Place
where He had been ministering for years,
into the next apartment of the heavenly Sanctuary...
the Most Holy Place... Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: So... so think about this, remember our timeline, right?
70 weeks...
we saw... the first church revolved around the 70 weeks,
okay, and, we find Jesus ministering in the Holy Place,
right, seven-branched candlestick...
we get down to the second church we find, it's the interim,
between the 70 weeks and the 1,260...
we get down to the third church, we find the same thing,
so, first church... 31 A.D. to 100 A.D.,
second church... 100 A.D. to about 313 A.D.,
third church... 313 or 323 roughly...
down to about 538...
the fourth church... we saw... brought us into the 1,260...
538 A.D... that's when the 1,260 year prophecy begins...
538 A.D. takes us down to 1,517 with the Sardis church,
the Sardis church goes from the Reformation
all the way down to 1,798...
then we're introduced to church of Philadelphia,
it is after 1798 and it is introducing us
to the 2,300-day Prophecy, to cross check that
Christ says, "I have the key of David"
I'm about to open a door that no man can shut
and He's making reference to the door between the Holy Place,
the door that leads from the Holy Place
into the Most Holy Place where we find judgment beginning,
the final judgment, the final work of God
and that work commences
when God's people finally reunite again,
to have a completed gospel not a partial gospel... Sardis,
but a completed gospel,
now that the completed gospel has been restored,
judgment can begin to go forward.
James: And I see this also, Ivor, there's a connection here
in verse 10, "Because thou hast kept the word of my patience,
I'm going to keep you from the hour of temptation
which shall come upon the whole world,
to try them that dwell on the earth. "
Now there are two points here, the first one is...
"you've kept the word of my patience,"
is a direct connection to Revelation 14,
because in Revelation 14 and verse 12,
it describes a people who have "the patience of the saints,"
it says, "here is the patience of the saints... "
so you've kept the word of my patience,
you have the patience of the saints,
what did these people do?
They keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
Where are the commandments of God?
In the Most Holy Place, in the Ark of the Covenant
and it's disclosed in Revelation 11 and verse 19.
Ivor: Absolutely.
James: So here is one connection,
then you have the hour of temptation
that's going to come up on all the world.
Basically, what we see God allowing here
as we get further into the book,
but we're in the Philadelphian Age
so we're there... we're just not expanding it yet
until we get into the other part of Revelation
is... He's allowing a test
that's going to come upon all the world
small, great, rich, poor, free and bond,
everyone's going to be...
the whole world... is going to be tested
and in that hour of test,
you're going to be kept, because why?
Because you are walking further in the light...
you are walking through that door,
you have seen what I have for you in the Most Holy Place,
you're recognizing the goal
and you're going to embrace by my patience...
you're going to embrace that light which is... revealed
"keeping the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus"
and so I'm going to keep you from the hour of temptation...
being kept from the hour of temptation... in this...
as it says in Revelation 14 and I love this,
is the experience of following the lamb wherever He goes,
"follow the lamb... "
He has gone in to the Most Holy Place
and He wants us to follow Him in
to the Most Holy Place, just follow the lamb...
you'll be okay if you just follow the Lamb
and of course the Lamb is... the Word...
the Word of God... made flesh... so the Word of God...
the Lamb of God... He wants to woo us...
the love story again... He wants us to be the bride...
He wants us to be prepared... He wants us to be robed...
He wants us to follow Him all the way...
no man can shut that door,
if you listen to men... the door is going to be shut,
the Lawyers in Christ's day tried to shut up the...
the key of knowledge...
but if you follow me... you're good.
Ivor: I don't know if you remember how we talked about the
three compartments of the Sanctuary...
right, there's the Outer Court
which had the Altar of Sacrifice and the Laver,
there was the Holy Place
that has the three articles of furniture,
and then there's the Most Holy Place,
so this understanding of the Sanctuary really helps us here
because, remember in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,
we're being pointed to the Altar of Sacrifice,
right, and from the Book of Acts...
all the way over to Jude, we're looking at the Laver,
all that's the Outer Court,
but when we get to Revelation, what we see is...
Christ standing in the midst of the candlesticks,
we're see Him in the Altar of Incense,
we see Him at the Table of Shewbread,
right, but within the context of the seven churches,
this now all comes together when you realize,
"Whoa, each prophecy is like moving us...
stage by stage to the Sanctuary
so 70 weeks points us to the Outer Court,
the 1,260 points us to that period of time
covering three to four churches
and then the 2,300 is what... is when Christ is saying,
"I'm going to open this door that no man can shut"
and brings us into that Most Holy Place
which sets the foundation, so, put it like this,
if we didn't have the seven seals
or the seven trumpets,
just the understanding of the seven churches
let's just say, all we had were the seven churches
and then Revelation 12... 13... 14...
that alone... right, from Revelation...
from the sixth church onward,
you would have Revelation 12, 13, 14...
because that's where all... Most Holy Place...
events now begin to occur, so phrase it another way...
the 70 and the 1,260... you find them occupying
most of the first church, second church, third church,
fourth church, fifth church...
when you get to the sixth church,
the 70 and the 1,260 fall off the scene.
Now we're dealing with 2,300-Day 1844 language,
focus... and that's what this open door does,
it brings an understanding
this key unlocks the understanding of the Sanctuary
as it relates to end-time events.
James: And you know,
the seven churches is to the Book of Revelation
what Daniel 2 is to the Book of Daniel.
Ivor: Absolutely.
James: Daniel 2 is the basic framework
and you have this image... all of it is there,
everything is there, we have the image,
it goes from Babylon, Medo-Persia,
Greece, Rome, you got the ten toes,
you've got the nations of Europe,
you've got the miry clay mixed with the iron
and Church-State... mixed with civil power,
and then you've got the stone
that comes and smites the image at the feet
and becomes a great mountain and fills the whole earth,
the whole thing is there,
second coming... the whole thing is there,
even thousand years... it's all there...
but the details... the details...
so, the seven seals and the seven trumpets
and Revelation 12... are going to give us more details,
but what is it that says here,
"you've kept the word of my patience... "
oh, what does that mean?
Oh, Revelation 14 tells us what that means, right?
"The word of my patience... "
now why don't you look at this verse that follows,
it says, verse 12, it says, "Him that overcomes,
will I make a pillar in the temple of my God,
he shall go no more out... "
Out of what? The Temple...
"and I will write upon him the name of my God,
and the name of the city of my God... "
that is... "I'm going to seal him with the seal of God,
the name of the city of my God... the new Jerusalem,
this is talking about the sealing now
because the sealing takes place
during the Philadelphia experience
that started right there,
the sealing time began during the Philadelphia experience,
so "I'm going to write on him the name of my God,
I'm going to write on him the new Jerusalem,
and which comes down from heaven from my God:
and I will write upon him my new name. "
So God's people are going to be sealed in this time now,
here's the point I want to make about this verse...
Ivor: Let me... let me just back up
to something you just said, James: Okay.
Ivor: So, in Revelation 14 and verse 1, it says,
"And I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on Mount Zion,
and with him a hundred forty and four thousand,
having his Father's name written in their foreheads. "
We know that the seal of God is received in the forehead
and so the seal of God is... in a sense...
the Father's name being written
so this correlates us... it let's us know
that we are definitely looking at end-time events here,
in Revelation chapter 3 when it tells about Philadelphia...
having the name of God written upon them.
James: Yes, and it talks about in Revelation 22...
it talks about the fact that they...
"the redeemed will see His face
and His name shall be in their foreheads"
so everyone that's in heaven is going to have His name
in their foreheads and the name of God
is synonymous with the character of God...
is synonymous with the Law of God.
Ivor: That's right.
James: This is another reference to the Law...
in the Most Holy Place.
and here's something really...
Jason: Now, so, what about the Mark of the Beast then?
and the name of God is written on the forehead,
the Mark of the Beast is... written on the forehead as well?
James: Yes... no... yes... or in the hands, or in the hands
so here's a real quick response to that...
to that statement and that is,
we can only receive the seal of God in the forehead
because... to be sealed... with the name of God
is to have His image reflected in our hearts, in our minds,
so we are like God...
the Mark of the Beast can be received
in the forehead or in the hand because the Mark of the Beast is
either reflecting the image of the beast
which ultimately is selfishness, versus selflessness,
or just going along with it,
in other words, you don't really actually believe this,
you don't really actually hear this
but because of the financial pressure,
the economic pressure, the death threat,
you're going to go along with it.
All: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: And so there's those two options,
but with God, it has to be genuine,
you can't... right now with God you can go along...
you can pretend, you can just go along with it
but the test is going to distinguish
between those who just go...
who say they're Jews and they're not...
and they're liars... Philadelphia church...
you can't just go along with it with God...
when the test comes,
it has to be a genuine experience.
Ivor: And let me add this
that those who receive the Mark of the Beast
on their forehead, will be those who are
genuinely deceived,
which will be
almost the whole world...
who doesn't understand the Scriptures,
those who receive the mark in the hand
are those who understand the Scripture...
they're not deceived... James: They're not deceived.
Yvonne: Ahh... that's interesting...
wait... give us that again... unpack that a little bit.
Ivor: So, remember, the whole world is going to be
deceived but... really it's not the whole world,
those... those who are deceived in their mind
receive the Mark in their forehead,
they're the ones that are like, "Oh yeah... "
they have no clue...
they don't understand the Scriptures,
those who receive the Mark in the hand
are those who are not deceived...
Ivor: They understand... you understand what I'm saying?
They understand the Sanctuary,
yeah, they understand the everlasting gospel,
they know it here but because of pressure
and because their characters have not been developed,
in time of crisis, they know better
but they go along.
Jason: Okay let me ask you this question...
what about that verse...
"God winks at our ignorance," what does that mean?
James: That means that there are people, even now...
and this is why we're still...
we're still looking in relation to this,
we're still looking for
a culmination of what we're developing right here,
there are people who are in Babylon... who are God's people.
The final message that we're going to see proclaimed...
as we expand this
and repeat and enlarge on this in Revelation 18...
the final message we're going to hear proclaimed
as the earth is lightened by the glory of God is...
"Come out of her my people, come out... "
they're honest... they... we've looked at Sardis,
we've looked at Thyatira,
we see honest people in those churches,
"I'm not going to put any burden,
what you have... hold fast till I come...
you haven't found your works perfect,
you need to progress, come out, come out,
I even gave Jezebel space to repent,
and she repented not,
do you see Ahab...
how he's repenting, how he's humbling himself,
what about Manasseh?"
Manasseh is actually going to be in heaven.
"Oh, Nebuchadnezzar, that wicked king
who was ready to kill all his wise men
because they couldn't interpret his dream?"
He's going to be in heaven.
Ivor: And he was the king of Babylon.
James: God winks at our ignorance
but there's a time coming... there's a test coming...
and there are people who know... they get it in their hand...
there are people who not only... as Ivor said,
are going to be people who know but go along with it,
there's also going to be people... they may not know
what we know as far as the truth goes,
but they do know that that is not true
and they're just going along with it,
even though they know that's not true
they're just going along with it
because they haven't fully embraced the truth,
their only safety is in the truth.
Now, let me... oh, go ahead...
Yvonne: The whole idea of having God's name in our heads,
I love the idea that He knows my name,
"Fear not for I have redeemed thee...
I've called thee by name... thou art mine... "
so, I am His... now His name is in my head...
and so, I know Him and I am now...
He's giving me a new name...
I'm going to shout up here in a minute now!
I'm getting ready to shout up here...
James: Think about this...
let's just pull this out a little bit...
my wife... before I married her...
her name was Khadia... I wooed her, dated her,
courted her, drew her, asked her,
she said, "Yes," we got married,
now her dad wanted her to keep her maiden name,
but I'm giving her a new name... I'm giving her a new name...
Yvonne: Right... right... James: That's great because
her first name is Risé... Risé Rafferty...
Yvonne: Oh, nice... it has a ring to it,
it has a ring...
so God is wooing us... you see...
God is the bridegroom and He's courting us,
you see... and He is enclosing us in His arms of love,
He's drawing us to Him and He's getting us ready...
the marriage of the Bride has come...
and if we marry Him, we get a new name...
we get a new name.
Yvonne: Ah ha...
James: So the whole... the whole package is there,
it's all there.
All right... this verse... I want to unpack this verse,
I've been anxious to do this
just because... it's a new idea to me
and I think it's really important... verse 12...
"Him that overcometh
will I make a pillar in the temple of my God... "
okay... the need to overcome,
the issue that they had to overcome was this disappointment
the Philadelphian church had overcome this disappointment,
they had to accept that God had this in hand
He knew what was happening,
they had to accept and trust the bridegroom,
they had to trust Him,
there were some rumors about Him that... you know,
where... He was a shady guy... you can't trust Him...
they had to trust Him
and then they had to
enter into this understanding of the temple,
and if they would enter into this,
they would become pillars in the temple,
now, a pillar in a temple is something
that holds up the temple, it supports the temple
and they wouldn't go out of the temple,
they'd come in,
they support the temple and they don't leave it,
see, there are people that wouldn't go in
they wouldn't support the temple idea,
they wouldn't support the "Most Holy Place idea,"
they wouldn't support the idea that this was a disappointment
because we misunderstood the earthly Sanctuary,
it's really the heavenly Sanctuary,
so they wouldn't go in...
Ivor: They were the pillars of our faith.
James: These are the pillars of our faith
that support our understanding of this truth
and we don't leave it,
now there are people that went in and then they go out.
there are people that come in and then they've gone out
but those who overcome... are going to go in...
they're going to be in that temple,
they're going to support that temple,
they're going to support that Sanctuary truth,
they're going to support those pillars and not going to leave.
Yvonne: So, this represents the 1844 experience then?
Ivor: Absolutely.
James: And our experience today
because we are walking in the footsteps of 1844,
we have to revisit that...
we have to go back and we have to say,
"Do we believe in the experience that they had?
Do we accept the message that God gave them
and do we step into that temple and support those...
are we supportive...
are we going to be pillars of that temple truth?"
Ivor: And I think, what's beautiful... as we look at again
at the correlation of Old Testament history,
we look at what happened under the work of Nehemiah,
these were people who were
at one time busy building their own homes,
who now come together to focus on the Lord's house,
and what I think... one of the most beautiful things
about the Millerite Movement was that in essence, Adventism...
was made up of people who came
from their different Denominations
and all became pillars in the one house of the Lord
and so, it's not that the Lord is saying,
"Hey, I have a... you know...
I like these people better than those people... "
He's saying, "I want all my people,
to come out of Babylon and go back to Jerusalem. "
Yvonne: Hmmm... yeah...
Ivor: "Come out of Babylon... and go back... "
and that's exactly what you see happening
under Sardis, Philadelphia... the history repeats itself,
these people came out of Babylon,
by-the-way, some chose to stay in Babylon.
James: Yes, and several calls were made...
Ivor: That's right... James: Come out...
and we need more priests, we need more people...
they were comfortable in their locations,
they were comfortable in this world,
and in our Denominations, and in the direction...
and we're not as willing...
we're reluctant to come out of all of that comfort...
and to step forward in what God has for them...
Ivor and James: Into the house of the Lord...
Ivor: Into spiritual Jerusalem. James: Israel...
yes, and we see them suddenly become pillars of that truth,
so it's... it's amazing... this... this...
all these verses are bringing out these entire experiences.
Yvonne: Yes... yes... yes...
James: And I know that... that there may be some questions
that people are going to be asking...
and if there are questions...
Jason: How do they send them in?
Yvonne: Ah... you're asking me, triple "s"
so it's: sss as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs,
@3abn. org
James: Amen... close us out with a prayer, Yvonne, please.
Yvonne: "Father God, thank you,
thank you so much for allowing us to just see
all of this new information and you're just so gracious
and just so good to us, Lord, we just thank you so much
continue to be with us, continue to guide us,
continue, Lord God, to direct our steps,
thank you again for all that you do and for who you are, Lord,
we just praise you, we just magnify you right now
as the Divine Designer, in Jesus' name, amen. "
All: "Amen... "