Part B... that's what this is... it's Part B
because last time we got through so fast,
I mean, time just got away from us
and we didn't realize that we were only half way through
so now we're on Part B or Part 2 of the Laodicean church,
in fact it went so fast that we didn't have time to do the
sss@3abn. org with your video questions...
now we made up for that, that's how we ended that one
and now we're going to do it again... on the end of this one
so, the reason why I think this message is so significant to us
is because, as we read these verses we're thinking,
"Whoa...
that's... that's me... that's us... "
this isn't like the other churches
where we can see it in history,
and we can kind of make the idealist applications
of the principles to us but really it applies there,
as soon as we started reading these verses... we were like...
gulp... "yeah, that's... " and we see it in our Society today,
so this message deserves two parts
because this message is not just about our condition
but it's also about a remedy
and we really need to spend some time on that remedy
so... so it comes home to us
so Jason, start us out with a word of prayer
and let's get right into that.
Jason: All right... "Dear Heavenly Father,
as we open your Word and study your Word,
we ask that you'll be with us
and lead, guide and direct our study,
in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: "Amen... "
The emphasis here is that Christ is faithful,
we talked about that... the faithfulness of the bridegroom,
the faithfulness of the husband and I can't think of that
in any other terms...
that are more practical than our relationships
not just our relationship with Christ...
but our relationships with our husbands and our wives
and our family members who are the ones probably that
tell us the things that are more sensitive
and can cause us the most pain
and yet they're being the most faithful to us
because they care about us...
they want us to be more than we are, et cetera,
you know, there are some people out there...
they couldn't care what we look like...
they couldn't care because they just couldn't care about us
so when we see Christ telling us these things
it's because He cares
and because He has a remedy and one of the remedies
that He really wants us to take a hold of
is this "gold tried in the fire, gold tried in the fire... "
but what is that? I mean, is He telling us to...
to trade in all of our cash and... you know...
like some people believe
and have that gold that we need to survive at the end of times?
Is He talking about monetary gold, figuratively...
or literally... having gold?
What is the gold?
Ivor: So we take a look at 1st Peter chapter 1 and verse 7
the Bible says there, "That the trial of your faith,
being much more precious than of gold that perisheth,
though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise
and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ... "
so we read this verse, we see that
gold... is used to symbolize faith
and the question we need to ask is, "How does faith come?"
The Bible tells us faith comes by... what?
"Hearing... and hearing by the Word of God... "
now, what is the condition of Laodicea?
Jesus just said, "you are wretched and miserable,
naked, blind... in other words... you're filthy,
you... you are in need of a remedy
and so He's telling us, "buy of Him gold tried in fire"
faith... right... how does faith come?
faith comes by hearing... and hearing by the Word of God
there's a very powerful verse,
it's in Psalm 119 verse 9 and it's says,
"Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way?
by taking heed according to thy word"
and so it is this "taking heed according to the word"
and we're going to see the gold represents other things as well
but Jesus is asking us, He's telling us,
"You need a faith that is able to withstand fiery trials,"
so you think about the story of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego
and how they were brought into a trying situation,
they were cast into a burning furnace
because they refused to bow down
and it's an amazing thing because the fire...
all that the fire did in that story...
was... it burned away the things that were binding them
James: The Babylonian things.
Ivor: The Babylonian things...
the Babylonian cords that bound them
and it's because Jesus was with them in the fire, right,
so the fire is not designed...
the persecution, trials, tribulations are not designed
to destroy us... but they are actually
like God's workmen to bring out the gold
and to get rid of the dross and...
we're heading towards the time of trouble
is what Jesus is telling us in this final church,
it's the clothing... right... so He's saying,
"Listen, I need you to be prepared for this time
and you need a faith... and that's why the Bible tells us
in Revelation 12 that these are they
that have the commandments of God and the faith... right?
"of Jesus" James: Revelation 14:12...
Ivor: Revelation 14:12... "the faith of Jesus"
it's His faith... that we need
because His faith was tried in fire
so, now, do I want my faith?
You know, my faith may... no...
to be safe, give me His faith. James: Amen.
Yvonne: Not the faith in Jesus, so much as the faith of Jesus.
Ivor: Right, exactly and where do we find the greatest picture
of the faith of Jesus?
We find it in His closing moments of His life.
James: Yes. Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: I love this because when I think about
those Babylonian cords, I'm thinking,
"What kind of Babylonian cords are binding us?"
And the trials comes and we're like, "Oh I hate these trials"
but God is saying, "I'm not trying to consume you,
I don't want you to be even smelling of smoke
when you come out of this,
I want to consume the cords of Babylon
that are binding you, that are restricting you,
that are causing you to be limited in your walk,
in your expression, in your connection with me,
I want to... I want to destroy those cords
so what kind of Babylonian cords
we need to ask ourselves...
are confining us and restricting us
that God wants to burn away through the fire?
And those cords are burning... now this fire...
I want to expand on this fire because the Bible indicates
that to sin... where we're found God is a consuming fire,
that His throne is set upon a lake of...
well, a sea of glass mingled with fire
and who will be able to dwell in the everlasting fire?
So you have all of these, I think,
illustrations of the fact that this gold is actually pointing
to the person of God, that it's the purest,
finest stuff to represent the purest, finest person,
and I think this is brought out in Revelation chapter 1
and also in the Book of Daniel,
Revelation chapter 1, would you read here for us
Jason, in Revelation chapter 1, would you read verse 13?
Jason: Verse 13...
"And in the midst of the seven candlesticks
one like unto the Son of man,
clothed with a garment down to the foot,
and girt about the paps with a golden girdle. "
James: Now, I'm going to have you read verse 17,
but just a second... I want to make a comment on this verse,
this is Jesus coming to John in a glorified persona,
in a glorified form and He's... He's...
He's pictured as having
"eyes like fire and feet like brass"
but He's also pictured as having this belt...
this waistband of gold around Him
and when John sees Him in this appearance
something happens to him, verse 17...
Jason: Okay, "And when I saw him,
I fell at his feet as dead.
And he laid his right hand upon me,
saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the last... "
James: Okay, so, this is the remedy,
Laodicea feels "rich and increased with goods
and in need of nothing"
and Jesus is outside the door knocking...
they're not connected with Jesus,
now, the reason they feel rich
and increased with goods and in need of nothing
is because they're connected with prophecy,
they're connected with doctrine,
they're connected with experience,
they have all the trappings
"of Christianity... of religiosity,"
they have all the trappings... but they don't have Jesus.
It's very similar, I think, to the first church,
the church of Ephesus, Jesus is outside
and when you don't have Jesus, you're not seeing the gold
and when you're not seeing the gold,
you're not feeling your need
and when you're not feeling your need...
John felt his need, he fell as dead...
and then what happens?
He says, "Don't fear, fear not... "
what happens with Daniel?
In Daniel chapter 10,
let's just look there in Daniel chapter 10
and I want you to look here,
we've seen these verses already once
but Yvonne, could you read
Daniel 10 and verse 5 and then verse 8?
Yvonne: Daniel 10 verse 5,
"Then I lifted up mine eyes,
and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen,
whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz... "
and verse 8, "Therefore I was left alone,
and saw this great vision,
and there remained no strength in me:
for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption,
and I retained no strength. "
James: Here it is again, notice now how
this man in linen which is Christ
because the appearance is the same as in Revelation,
He appears to Daniel, He's got the gold
and when Daniel sees Him, he falls like he's dead
and as soon as he falls like as if he's dead,
then the voice comes to him and says,
"Hey, Daniel, it's okay" and He touches him
and He lifts him up and He says, "Daniel, you are beloved,
you're are greatly beloved... " over and over again...
I just want to... I don't know,
I don't know if we should to go into Daniel here
because we're going to do it later so I won't,
but the point I want to make here is...
we talk about Daniel 7, we talk about Daniel 8,
we talk about Daniel 11, we talk about Daniel 12,
we talk about Daniel 2... we don't talk about Daniel 10,
this is the broccoli, these are the veggies,
this is the superfood right here,
this is the stuff that we're not interested in,
that I'll slip into my dog under the table
because I want to get to my main course,
this is the stuff where the nutrients are,
this is connection with Christ and what's happening is
the same thing that happened with me when I was a kid,
my mom would serve me my dinner and it would have the broccoli
and it would have the veggies and it would have the meat
and I'm a meat and potatoes kid,
so I'm eating my meat and I'm eating my potatoes
but I'm not wanting to eat that broccoli,
and I don't want to eat those greens
and so I'm slipping it to my dog under the table,
the problem is... my dog doesn't like the veggies either
so they're ending up on the floor and my mom's seeing that,
but... and so I had this plan and the plan was
eat down... scarf down the veggies first
and then you can get the taste out of your mouth
save the good stuff for last and that's what we do sometimes
we save the good stuff for last
and we try to get the other stuff out of the way,
we just try to go through it but we don't realize
that the stuff we're going to get out of the way
is the good stuff,
Daniel 10 is the good stuff,
this connection with Christ see... what we're doing is
we're getting ready now to go into some
very complicated prophecies,
we're going to go into the seals next,
and then we're going to go the trumpets,
then it's going to get more intense and more intense,
we need Jesus, we need Jesus...
He's the One who's going to unseal these prophecies for us
in fact, when we get into the seals...
the Lamb opens the seals, the Lamb opens...
seals are things that are mysterious,
that they can't be understood, the Lamb opens the seals...
the Lamb opens the seals... the Lamb opens the seals,
we've got to have Jesus to help us to understand
and we don't feel the need of Him, we're Laodiceans,
we feel rich... increased in goods and in need of zero,
so when we see Jesus, here's the difficult part,
we see Him and we're overwhelmed with our need
and we're overwhelmed with our comeliness
and our unrighteousness and we're like,
"Ah man, that's no way... " but that's when we feel our need
and Jesus is there to help us, over and over again,
to lift us up and to touch us
and to lift us up and to touch us
and that's what Daniel 10 is telling us
and that's what we need to see,
that's the remedy that Laodicea needs,
we need that remedy,
and I think the Jews needed that remedy too
when we go through it...
we see that history played out again and again,
we make a connection to...
because Revelation is not some item over by itself,
it's reconnecting us to the rest of the story back here
and the progression of history, how it applied to the Jews...
and the need that they have
and I really love that,
I love the way we make that connection
to... to the rest of the story.
Ivor: I think if we look at the connection
and actually build some more on that,
seeing the condition of Israel at the first coming of Christ
and comparing it with the condition of the church...
second coming of Christ,
we can still pull a lot of lessons from that...
that will help us not to make the same mistakes that they made
so if you remember in our previous discussions
we have been looking at the fact that... that the churches...
the seals... and the trumpets... all parallel
and we can check the seals as we begin to go through them,
we can go back and check with the churches
yeah, that's a match...
same with the trumpets... yeah, that's a match
but the churches come first and it would appear
that there is nothing we can match the churches with
until we realize, "Wait a minute...
the seven churches are a reflection or a parallel
of the history of the Old Testament Church
so let's run through that rapidly,
we'll start with... about the fourth church,
we'll move on down to the seven...
and then begin to make these applications
so, you'll remember the fourth church,
symbolized by that woman, Jezebel,
a representation of Babylon, we saw that that parallel...
the period of history in which
God's people were in Babylonian captivity
because of their rebellion,
we saw that the fifth church, Sardis,
represented those escaping
the Protestant Reformation which began...
they left, they were leaving out of Babylon
and going back to rebuild
but they did not complete the Reformation,
we saw this history parallels
the story of the children of Israel,
leaving Babylonian captivity
and beginning to do the work of the Lord
but the work died out...
we saw that the sixth church, Philadelphia
represented the Millerite Movement
and the completing of that Reformation
which parallel the history of Nehemiah
coming in and finishing the Reformation that...
those under Ezra's time had begun.
So, perfect parallel there...
then we see that actually Nehemiah was...
since he's waiting for the coming of the Lord now,
and when the Lord comes,
the first coming... what is the condition of Israel?
They are not hot, they are not cold,
they are lukewarm,
it is the wise that are prepared for the coming of the Messiah,
we think about the parable of the five wise
and the five foolish virgins,
we begin to see all these parallels
between what happened in Israel, they were eventually spued out
because they rejected... who? The Messiah...
in the same way that Jesus says,
"Look, I will spue you out of my mouth
because of your lukewarmness... "
and then this whole picture opens up then
of how we can actually be prepared
for the second coming of Christ by looking at
not only how Christ sought to prepare His disciples,
but even the mistakes the disciples made
because He gave them Gethsemane,
to prepare them for the time of trouble.
What can we learn from that?
First of all, Peter thought that he was hot,
he thought he was rich,
increased with goods, needed nothing,
Jesus said, "By the time the cock crows three times,
you would have denied me thrice... " so think about this,
how many times... we're going about our business and
I was born in Jamaica, raised up in New York,
when I married my wife, Atonte, she lives in California,
in the country... in California,
so I remember when I went out to California
and the first morning I woke,
there was a rooster crowing and I wake up like...
"Wait a minute... what was that? Where am I?"
And I began to think,
"Am I going to hear this, like, every morning?
like, I am really in the country what?"
The rooster was crowing and I was like,
"This is a movie... this can't be real... "
now I'm used to it, but think about it,
that rooster is like the Holy Spirit,
think about every time you know that you're supposed
to be doing something and you don't,
you know that... that you shouldn't laugh at that joke
but you do and I can just imagine the Holy Spirit,
like that rooster, crowing... ahhhhhhhh...
I can't even do it... and you hear that voice
and you're going, "Oh man, I just denied Him...
I just denied Him... I just denied Him. "
Remember the Holy Spirit like that divine rooster
always there to say,
"Listen, you're very off-track, you're very off-track... "
so as we look at this and say, "Wow!
this is Christ trying to tell us,
"You don't even know yourself, you think you're rich
and increased with goods,
I'm telling you, you're going to deny me...
and so, I'm giving you this experience... "
which brings us to John chapter...
chapter 6 where... we can actually tie in John chapter 6
with what happens at the last supper
because remember the message to the Laodicean is what?
"I want to come in... " and do what?
"Sup with you... "
so what is Christ doing
right before this time of trouble hits
for Him and His disciples?
He's eating with them, the bread and the words...
that takes us to John 6.
James: And He says,
"this bread is my body and this wine is my blood... "
and John six it's the same thing,
John six is... the whole chapter is...
well not the whole chapter
but the whole later half of the chapter,
I'm just going to summarize it, it's basically Jesus saying,
"Listen, the bread that came down from heaven is me...
I'm the bread of life, you need to eat me,
you need to eat my flesh, you need to drink my blood... "
and they try to... they try to throw it out...
"What? we're not cannibals,
what are you talking about eating flesh and drinking...?"
They know what He's talking about...
He is talking about "supping" on Him
as the bread of life... it's... it's... very simple...
it's very practical, it's this, it's the Word of God,
okay, the Word of God... it's not the media,
it's not Facebook, Fox News and CNN,
it's not sports and it's not music,
it's not all of the stuff that distracts us,
it's the Word of God and Jesus says,
"You know, you're so distracted,
even... even by your "religiosity" you're distracted,
you need to be in the Word of God
and so, when He's supping with the disciples,
He's reminding them of that truth,
and then we're... we're taken back to John chapter 6,
he reminds them of that truth
and then we go to Revelation chapter 3
He's knocking on the door, "Who is it?"
"It's me... it's Jesus... "
"Well, what do you want?" "I just want to sup with you,
I just want to come in and eat with you. "
And that knock... that rooster crowing...
that knock comes every single day, every morning,
evening, afternoon... Jesus is knocking on the door,
every time we turn on the media device,
every time we have this moment of opportunity
it's a moment for us to turn our hearts to God,
when people are texting us and e-mailing us
and sending us these little requests,
I just got one in our break, you know,
"Please pray for me... " a friend of mine...
"we're in a situation, this is the situation,
call for prayer... " "Okay, I'll pray for them... "
no... pray for them right now
because you won't pray for them... down the road,
do it right now, this is a little reminder,
right now, it's a little reminder, and...
Ivor: What happens is the voice of God...
just like the rooster...
you... first morning... "That was a rooster!"
A week later... "yeah, that was a rooster... "
a month later... you're not hearing the rooster anymore
because you've become so used to the voice,
you've learned to shut it out
and that's Laodicea's problem...
is that we've learned to shut out the knock,
it's become a "white noise"
yeah, you don't even hear that knock anymore
and Jesus is saying,
"Look, I'm trying to prepare you for what's coming,
you're not even hearing me knocking... "
you're not hearing the rooster anymore.
James: Tone deaf... Ivor: Tone deaf...
James: It's a fact that sometimes we're so tuned out
certain noises... including human voices...
that we become tone deaf to that noise,
we're just kind of tone deaf again...
Ivor: People living next to airports...
they no longer hear the roaring of the airplane,
I mean, how loud is that?
They no longer hear the roaring of that plane,
think about the issue of the disciples in Gethsemane,
Jesus said, "Look, I want you to watch with me...
pray with me... something's coming,
we need to be prepared... " so look...
if that happened for the first coming of Christ,
are we going to have a Gethsemane experience
in this time of Laodicea? Absolutely!
We can know that because the history is parallel
and Jesus is trying to show us,
"Look, don't make the same mistake
that the disciples made who said,
'We'll never forsake you, no, no, no, no, no,
we will go with you to the death,
we're ready to... we're ready to... what? Mark?
What Mark? A Mark on this forehead?
No, I'll... I'll rather die... '"
And then suddenly that trial comes and you find...
God says, "Look... "
back then... they had a second opportunity
when this hits, there is no...
you fail this... there is no second opportunity.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... so we're looking...
we're looking at the Laodicean condition
and we're seeing that it is bleak... it is intense...
it is critical... we are...
we are being admonished in the strongest way
but also... it is hopeful,
God has this deep love in His heart,
this deep desire to sup with us, to connect with us,
and the thing that's getting in the way
is all of our self-righteousness and self-dependence,
when... when all we need to do is
open that door and let Jesus in so that He can sup with us
and there's nothing like that.
Yvonne: You know that whole idea of choice,
it is our choice to open that door,
He doesn't push the door in, He doesn't barge in,
He leaves it up to us,
behold I stand at the door and knock,
if any man hears my voice and opens the door... "
so it's up to us, to open the door
but it's even God that brings us to repentance,
so, it's like, "Yeah, it's our choice
but in His mercy,
it's even Him... that makes us want to choose Him,
God is so merciful but the idea that nothing could take away
our power to choose, nothing...
so He's... He leaves it up to us,
if we open the door, He will come in and connect...
I like that word... connect with us,
He wants... when you think about somebody
coming over to eat, you're hanging out... you know.
James: Jason... Jason... Yvonne: Yeah, I know... Jason...
Just coming and connecting, that's what Jesus wants,
He just wants us to connect with Him.
James: Now, now let's look at this,
just for a second, let's just touch on this,
let's just get a little more out of this, okay,
we're talking about food right now
and could Jesus have put it in better words,
at least for some of us,
could He have put it in better words than that,
what is Jesus saying?
He's saying, "I've got some food that is out of this world,"
now think about this... haven't we partaken some of that food
as we've doing this study through the Book of Revelation?
We go, "Wow! that was good... Man! that was good stuff... "
Yvonne: Yeah...
James: See, if we never would have opened the door,
if we never would have opened the door,
if we never would have opened the door...
and just opened it, and just... and what Jesus is saying is,
"You know, the more I feed you,
the more you're going to experience something
that is so tasty, so delicious, so satisfying,
so filling, but the other stuff...
phish... you just can't be satisfied...
Ivor: And see, this is the thing...
He's not asking you to prepare the food...
you know, if I say, "Hey, I want to come eat with you. "
"What? I have to cook? Maybe next week... "
Jesus says, "Look, I brought the food with me...
so, I'm not asking you to cook, I'm just... I brought the food"
and what is the food?
He says, "This is my body which is broken for you,"
He's trying to bring the cross to us,
He's trying to let us see that Christ and Him crucified,
Christ and Him lifted up is the remedy,
that's what opens our eyes,
that's what clothes us with the white robe,
that's what brings us the faith of Jesus
I want that faith, as I behold Him on the cross,
by beholding... I become changed...
so think about those guys back in Israel who...
when they were being bitten by the serpents
as they looked up at the serpent on the pole,
something miraculous was happening in them
that made them impervious, if you will,
to the venom of the serpent, but if they look down...
and that's what we like to do, if you're around snakes,
man! the natural tendency is to look down.
Yvonne: Right.
Ivor: God tells Moses, "Put up a serpent on the pole
and lift it up... where they have to look up,"
yeah, "but I need to look down because of... "
"No, no, no, no, no... an exercise of faith... "
I need the faith of Jesus, I'm going to be able to look up
when serpents are around me on the ground
and I naturally want to look down
look at my old wounds...
He says, "Don't look at yourself, look at me,
and by looking at me, you'll become changed. "
Yvonne: Yes...
James: Perfect illustration for the challenge that we have today
not to be self-sufficient,
not to look down and try to protect ourselves,
but to look up by faith and know
that Jesus is going to take care of us,
He's going to take care of us, we have our own little trials,
even... even in doing these programs,
we're facing some trials
and we need to know that God is opening these doors
and that God is going to continue to open the doors
and we need to look up to Him
and see where the door is being opened
and no man can shut, no man can shut that door
and how He's going to be bringing that food,
bringing that food, bringing that food...
nurturing us... nurturing us, nurturing us.
Ivor: That's around the table... food that's around the table...
Yvonne: Come on now... come on now...
okay our time is up again, we want to remind our viewers
to send in their video questions...
Yvonne: To sss... as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs,
@3abn. org
James: And we want to have our closing prayer
Yvonne, would you pray for us?
Yvonne: Sure... "Father God, how rich is your Word
thank you so much, thank you for loving us
and giving us the power to choose you
and giving us the abundant life, Lord, because in you...
there is life more abundantly...
so we thank you so much for that,
for your presence and your power, Lord,
we just praise your name and we bless you
and we thank you for loving us
when we don't even love ourselves,
loving us when we were sinners
and as we continue to make mistakes and sin, Lord,
you love us still... thank you,
in Jesus' name we pray Father God, amen. "
All: "Amen. "