We are finished, finished, finished
and just getting started.
So we're finished with the seven churches,
we've done the intro to Revelation,
we've gone through the churches of Revelation
we set up a good foundation... that foundation is
a repeat and enlarge, a recapitulation
a recapitulation that we're going to see
in the seals and in the trumpets
and now we're starting in the seals,
now the seals begin with two chapters,
Revelation 4 and Revelation 5
and they're parallel chapters so, it's going to take us
at least two... maybe three meetings
to just go through these first two chapters
before we actually start unsealing the Book...
before the Lamb starts unsealing the Book...
and again I just want to remind us that this Book... Revelation
is mysterious, it's complicated, it's challenging,
it's difficult but it's going to be easy
because everything we're about to study
we've already studied once in the seven churches
and now we're just going to see it all over again,
there's going to be some new stuff in here, of course,
but we're going to go all the way back to the Apostolic Age,
we're going to see what the activities were taking place
in symbolic language here
as Jesus went to heaven after His resurrection,
and how that impacted the earth, Planet Earth...
the outpouring of the Holy Spirit
and how that played out in the history of the fall
all the way down again to the second coming of Jesus
and then boom! we're done with the seals
and the trumpets... we start again...
at the Apostolic Age...
Ivor: So we're studying the Book three times over.
James: Yes, well four actually, and the fourth time...
it takes us right into... just like the Laodicean church,
right into us... and events that some have passed
but a lot of them are yet to be played out there,
all right, so we're going to start with a word of prayer,
Jason, pray for us and we'll get into it.
Jason: Heavenly Father, it's an honor and a privilege
to be able to study your Word and we wouldn't dare do so
without asking you to be with us,
so we ask you for your presence and
we ask that you will help us to comprehend what we're studying,
and to be able to it and retain it,
and repeat it... in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: "Amen... "
James: And like we normally do,
let's just read through the verses first...
that gives us an idea of what we're going to be covering
and maybe Yvonne, you can start and read
one through six and then maybe Jason,
you could read, seven through eleven.
Yvonne: Sure... "After this I looked,
and, behold, a door was opened in heaven:
and the first voice which I heard was as it were
of a trumpet talking with me; which said,
Come up hither, and I will shew thee things
which must be hereafter.
And immediately I was in the spirit;
and, behold, a throne was set in heaven,
and one sat on the throne.
And he that sat was to look upon
like a jasper and a sardine stone:
and there was a rainbow round about the throne,
in sight like unto an emerald.
And round about the throne were four and twenty seats:
and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting,
clothed in white raiment;
and they had on their heads crowns of gold.
And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings
and voices: and there were seven lamps
of fire burning before the throne
which are the seven Spirits of God.
And before the throne there was a sea of glass
like unto crystal: and in the midst of the throne,
and round about the throne, were four beasts
full of eyes before and behind. "
Jason: "And the first beast was like a lion,
and the second beast like a calf,
and the third beast had a face as a man,
and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.
And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him;
and they were full of eyes within:
and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy,
Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.
And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him
that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever,
The four and twenty elders fall down before him
that sat on the throne,
and worship him that liveth forever and ever,
and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Thou art worthy, O Lord,
to receive glory and honour and power:
for thou hast created all things,
and for thy pleasure they are and were created. "
James: What an incredible scene we see here.
Yvonne: Wow! Hmmm... hmmm...
James: This is an incredible scene
and there are a lot of words... word implications of events
that are transpired and changes that are taking place
in Government of Heaven,
impacting planet Earth in this picture,
this picture is not just all...
"Let me just take you to heaven and show you what heaven's like"
and show you what God... where He sits and what happens
around the throne, whatever, no... as we study this,
we're going to find that there are
certain phrases and words here
and the presence of certain individuals
that are telling us a story of redemption
and telling us that something major has been accomplished
and that's why we see this double praise to God
we see the living creatures...
the four beasts... the living creatures,
they are saying, "Holy, holy, holy... "
and then we see the 24 elders, who were they?
They're saying, "Oh, honor and glory,
you are worthy to receive glory and honor and power
for you have... what have you done?"
And so, that's what we're going to see here as we...
as we start to break open chapter four in Revelation.
Ivor: I think... one of the important things that...
we have stressed is location and timing...
location and timing... we saw that these...
this is answer for us in terms of the time prophecies,
the 70 weeks, the 1,260... the 2,300...
and the Sanctuary...
in terms of location... where are we?
And so, the question that we want to answer right now
to kind of lay the foundation for Revelation chapter four,
and five and actually six and seven,
is location... where is Jesus in Revelation chapter 4?
This is an introduction to the seven seals
and so in order to rightly understand the seven seals
and what they're talking about,
we need to understand the opening vision,
and so here we see that a throne is set in verse 1,
or rather verse 2, and the question is,
"What throne is this, where is this throne?"
Look in verse 5... the Bible says there,
"And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings
and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire
burning before the throne,
which are the seven Spirits of God. "
So, we're given a clue here as to the location of this throne,
the Bible tells us that before the throne
directly across from the throne was this...
were the seven lamps,
now we know where the seven lamps are found
and the seven-branched candlestick
is found in the Sanctuary, right?
That is found in the Holy Place, so let's hold our place here
and go over to the Book of Exodus chapter 26 and verse 35
and in Exodus 26, verse 35,
Yvonne, I'm going to ask if you could read that for me,
Exodus 26 verse 35.
Yvonne: "And thou shalt set the table without the veil,
and the candlestick over against the table
on the side of the tabernacle toward the south:
and thou shalt put the table on the north side. "
Ivor: Okay, very good, so,
the Bible says that the candlestick was located
on the south side of the Sanctuary,
so directly across from that
was the Table of Shewbread
which is located on the north side of the Sanctuary,
or if I were to put it another way,
the Table of Shewbread is located
on the "sides of the north. " Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: The sides of the north, okay,
so let's go over to Psalm 48
and let's see why that's significant,
Psalm 48 verse 2.
James: What was that last verse?
Ivor: That was Exodus 26 verse 35.
Ivor: So, Psalm 48 verse 2, and Jason, find that,
could you read that for us?
Jason: Psalm 48 verse 2, all right...
"Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth,
is mount Zion on the sides of the north,
the city of the great King. "
Ivor: Ah, okay, so...
Mount Zion... is said to be located where?
On the sides of the north... it is a city of... who?
The great King... so where does the King sit?
He sits on the side of the north,
why is that so significant?
Because if you remember Isaiah chapter 14,
which speaks about Lucifer...
James: And his fall...
Ivor: Where did Lucifer want to sit?
James: On the sides of the north.
Ivor: On the sides of the north, on the mount of the congregation
also think about that,
what's on the Table of Shewbread?
There are twelve loaves of bread,
those loaves of bread
represented the Children of Israel
or what we would call, "the twelve tribes... "
the congregation of God, get that?
So, the sides of the north
would represent the mount of the congregation,
God's people... and God sitting as King over those people,
this is why Lucifer wants to sit on the side of the north
but this side of the north is located in the Holy Place,
so what we're seeing here in Revelation chapter 4
is a vision of the throne in the Holy Place.
Now here's why this is super significant
in the context of the seven seals
because remember we just mentioned that this is a...
Revelation 4 and 5 is revealing to us the story of redemption,
okay, so the significant thing about the Table of Shewbread
is that the Priest was to...
in fact it was Leviticus 24 verse 8
and I'll just read it here very quickly,
it says, "Every Sabbath shall he set it in order... "
that is the Table of Shewbread,
"in order before the Lord continually,
being taken from the children of Israel
by an everlasting covenant. "
So the Table of Shewbread was to be ministered
how often? "Ministered at... " how often?
Every Sabbath... Leviticus 24 verse 8.
The Table of Shewbread brings our attention
to the Word of God, but even more specifically,
to the Sabbath Commandment, okay,
now here's why this is so... so... beautiful
and so, actually, important in the context of the seven seals.
It is because the Sabbath according to Exodus 20
is a sign of Creation,
God created the world in six days
and rested on the seventh,
that's why He wants us to keep it...
but there was another reason that God gave
for us keeping the Sabbath,
it's found in Deuteronomy chapter 5,
I'm going to read that in your hearing
so, Deuteronomy chapter 5 verse 14,
it says, "But the seventh day is the Sabbath
of the LORD thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work,
thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter,
nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant,
nor thine ox, nor thine ass,
nor any of thy cattle,
nor thy stranger that is within they gates;
that thy manservant
and thy maidservant may rest as well as thou.
And remember that thou was a servant
in the Land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God
brought thee out thence through a mighty hand
and by a stretched out arm: therefore the LORD thy God
commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day. "
The Sabbath was a sign... not only of Creation
but also redemption,
God has drawn us out from a terrible situation,
therefore, keep the Sabbath, now why is that significant?
Because as you look at the... for example the first seal,
there's a rider on a white horse,
well, that rider on the white horse...
we will identify as Jesus Christ but Jesus... in Revelation 19...
He's again sitting on a white horse
and His name is called the Word of God.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: In the third seal...
you find a famine of wheat and barley,
guess what wheat and barley make? They make bread...
okay, in the fifth seal you find the people
are under the altar... have been slain for what?
The Word of God and the testimony which they held,
now, check this out,
right between the sixth seal and the seventh seal,
you have the introduction of the 144,000
who are sealed with the seal of God,
what is the seal of God?
It's pointing us specifically to the Sabbath Commandment
and why are they sealed thus? Because they were...
the angel says, "these were they
are they who are brought out of great tribulation,
they were redeemed, they were redeemed... "
so the whole...
James: Just like in the Old Testament...
when they were redeemed... I brought you out of Egypt,
I brought you out of bondage, here's the 144,000...
here's this great multitude,
what they... they came out of great tribulation,
they've been sealed.
Ivor: And by-the-way, 144,000 is 12 times 12...
it's the Table of Shewbread right there,
the 24 elders... 12 and 12...
everything that is unfolding within the context of the seals,
should be understood
within the context of the Table of Shewbread.
So that sets the foundation and remember,
because the Table of Shewbread unfolds simultaneously
with the seven-branched candlestick,
we're going to see that these seals and churches
basically match.
James: They line up... and another thing
that's really... that came to me as you were talking, Ivor,
is in the vision...
you're talking about the Table of Shewbread
in the mount of the congregation... God's throne
and the shewbread... the 12 representing God's people there,
well that's exactly the picture
we see here in Revelation chapter 4,
we see a throne set in heaven and then we see
around the throne... 24 thrones
it says, "seats" in the King James
but the word is, "thrones," thrones...
24 thrones around that throne,
and this is the... these 24 thrones,
represent the people of God, 12 and 12... twenty four...
12 and 12... because they symbolize
the Old Testament redeemed, the New Testament redeemed
and they are around the throne, so if the throne represents
this Table of Shewbread...
then the thrones around that throne will represent
the mount of the congregations,
so you've got the symbols in the Old Testament
becoming literal in this revelation of Jesus Christ.
So, let's break that up just a little bit more,
let's look at that a little bit more,
how do we know that these 24 elders
are actually representative of the redeemed?
Because, you know, some people have said,
"Maybe these guys are representives
of the unfallen worlds... "
well, there are a number of reasons we know
that these represent the redeemed, okay,
the first reason I want to break down for you
is the number 24... it's 12 and 12...
that is a number that signifies the tribes and the apostles,
it's a Kingdom number, okay, number 2,
another number reason why we know
because of how they are described,
they have white robes...
that was promised to the Philadelphian church
if you overcome, they have crowns...
that was promised to the church of Smyrna, if you overcome...
and they are sitting on thrones,
you know what that was promised to?
"He that overcomes will sit with me on my throne
as I sit with my Father on His throne... "
that was promised to Laodicea,
so here... in other words...
John... in the seven churches... the Holy Spirit...
and by-the-way, here's another thought
that came to me as you were talking about the Sabbath
and how, God came to minister on the Sabbath,
He comes to minister on the Sabbath,
well, John was in the Spirit on the "Lord's Day"
when the Spirit came to minister to him and to share with him...
on this island... lonely island of Patmos...
to share with him... see... the Sabbath is a time for us
to be ministered to... by God,
Sabbath was a time when God wants to answer our prayers,
the Sabbath is the time when God wants to recharge us,
"Is your battery running low? Are you running out of power?"
Well, God wants to recharge that battery,
He wants to get you back up to where you need to be,
that's what the Sabbath is all about
so the Sabbath... John's alone...
and you can imagine... he might be discouraged...
he might be struggling...
he sees what's coming into the churches,
he sees this "falling away" beginning to develop,
he sees... men who want the preeminence,
and the Holy Spirit comes to him
and ministers to him on the Sabbath,
and as God shows him this vision,
he sees these 24 elders and all of a sudden he's clicking,
"Wait a minute... elders... elders... elders... "
never is the word used
in the Old Testament and the New Testament,
that anyone other than human beings...
angels are never called elders, angels are never called elders
when the sons of God went before the Lord... in Job,
these representatives from other worlds...
they weren't called elders,
elders are not only representatives of us,
people who've been redeemed, but they also... play a part
in the unfolding of the plan of Salvation
in the Book of Revelation, there are times
when John says, "One of the elders came to me... and said...
one of the elders came to me and said... "
and those the special moments, those are the special moments
that remind us of when we get to go to someone and say,
"we... redeemed... "
we... people who are going through the same struggles
that they are going through can go to them and say...
it's not an angel... it's not the Word of God...
sometimes, you know, you can witness to someone
through the Word of God, you give them all the doctrines
but sometimes they just need to hear a word from you.
"How did you... what's your relationship with Christ,
what does He mean to you?"
We're the... so those elders represent us...
and our testimony... and then finally, I think,
it's important... we'll get this...
into this in verse five too but it's important to recognize
that these elders are... are... actually spoken about
in Matthew 27 and in Ephesians chapter 4,
let's look at those two verses, Jason, if you can read for us
Matthew chapter 27 and Yvonne if you can look up
Ephesians chapter 4
and I'll give you the verses here as soon as I get there
because I don't have them of the top of my head
and Jason, in Matthew 27, it's verses... we'll just read
let's read all the way through verses 50 to 52
just to get the contents, contents... content...
verses 50 and 52 and then... Yvonne, when he's done with that
you can read in Ephesians chapter 4...
you have Ephesians?
Yvonne: I do... James: You do...
okay... ah... read verse 10
and... yeah, verse 10... Yvonne: Okay...
Jason: So, Matthew 27 verse 50 through 52 says...
James: 53...
Jason: Oh, so 53... "Jesus, when he had cried again
with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost.
And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain
from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake,
and the rocks rent;
And the graves were opened;
and many bodies of the saints which slept arose.
And came out of the graves after his resurrection,
and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.
James: One things I'll emphasize there before you say
your verse there, Yvonne, "after His resurrection" means,
"it's permanent," He was resurrected permanently,
so "after His resurrection" means... "this is permanent,"
they've been in the grave for quite some time
and they've been resurrected after His resurrection,
now what happens to these guys? Yvonne, go ahead...
Yvonne: Oh, Ephesians 4:10...?
"He that descended is the same
also that ascended up far above all heavens,
that he might fill all things. "
James: Oh, I didn't give you the...
I didn't give you the full thing here,
it actually starts with... verse 8.
Yvonne: Okay...
James: Actually it's verse 8, just read verse 8.
Yvonne: Eight... James: Hmmm... hmmm...
Yvonne: "Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high,
he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. "
James: Okay... this is talking about Jesus' resurrection,
"captivity" are that group of people that He resurrected
they were captive in the earth... in the grave,
and He led them... He led them... he let them free
and at the same time "gave gifts unto men... "
which we could say... is the Holy Spirit
as well as the gifts that they received
but it's... I think primarily the Holy Spirit
so, what you have taking place here in Revelation chapter 4
is you have this picture, okay, the throne is set in heaven,
the throne is a representation of the Government of God
it's been in controversy, now it's set,
it's set now, it's got a rainbow over it now
now, a rainbow is a symbol of God's justice and His mercy,
it's a symbol of... water and sunshine...
two seemingly opposites coming together
justice and mercy, is God just or is He merciful?
which one? Yvonne: Both...
Ivor: So, you're saying that perhaps there was an event
on earth that basically cemented
or established God's throne and rid the universe of any doubt
as to the character of various individuals
within the great controversy and that event would have been
the cross... the death and burial and resurrection.
James: Which chapter five is going to bring out...
see, chapter four is like Genesis chapter 1,
that's the creation story
and when God gives the creation story in Genesis one,
He says... that He made man in His image,
male and female made He them... done.
So, Revelation 4 says, "God's throne is set... "
there are 24 elders there, they've been raised, you know,
captive, they've got thrones,
they've got white robes, they've got crowns
it's all done...
chapter five tells us "Well, how did that happen,
how did the throne get set,
how did the rainbow get established,
how did God's mercy and justice get established...
how did those elders...
why are they there... how did that happen?"
Chapter 5 tells us... so chapter 5 is like Genesis 2,
Genesis 2 now goes back and...
goes back to the Creation story and says now,
"When God created man...
He made him out of the dust of the earth,"
we came from dirt... everybody knows that...
when God created woman...
ooooo, that was a little bit different,
He went to the man... took a rib...
so you get the details there, so when we get to...
so these are two parallel chapters...
they're repeating and enlarging within,
that's what Revelation 4 and 5 do,
Revelation 4 gives us a basic outline
and what happens is...
and this is... we don't do this enough...
what happens is... is when...
see it's been... thousands of years
that this controversy has been waging, in heaven,
and it's finally been settled, and when it's settled,
it's like... "YES!" and "holy, holy, holy... "
and then the 24 elders... they sit there and they go,
"Yes, worthy is the lamb... " and they just start praising God
this happened to me...
Ivor: Not that the controversy is going on...
not that there is war going on in heaven
for thousands of years... but...
James: No... no... but there's a controversy...
there's a question that needs to be answered, yes, good,
and so they can't help it, they just explode with praise,
but that's not... we're not done yet... Revelation 5,
"And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne
I saw a scroll written... "
and I... so we go through the thing again,
in a little bit more detail as to how this happened
but in chapter 4... we started the process of understanding
how God's throne is set, how these 24 elders got there,
why did they get the things
that were promised to the churches, how did that happen?
We looked at the verses with that special resurrection
we've seen God's throne was set, we've seen the rainbow over it,
we know that these guys are praising God,
we know they're saying, "Holy, holy, holy... "
we know the 24 elders are praising God,
the seven spirits are still there,
now, the seven spirits... have to go out into all the earth,
we'll see this in chapter 5 but not until we finish
this re-creation story, okay,
Genesis 1 and 2 gives us the creation story,
Revelation 4 and 5 gives us the re-creation story.
Ivor: And remember that... that concept that
what we're looking at in the cycle of seven
is re-creation... right,
how God is... re-doing things,
how God is bringing the church into His likeness
and into His image to usher us into that...
that eternal Sabbath in heaven, and so the parallels there
between the creation week of Genesis
and what's happening in the cycle of sevens,
in the Book of Revelation are again, very significant.
James: Very significant, in fact... in the creation week,
part one, chapter one, God rests on the Sabbath,
He's finished all His work and rests on the Sabbath,
in re-creation... when Jesus was on the cross on Friday
on the sixth day, He said, "It is finished... "
and he rested on the Sabbath.
Yvonne: Yes... yes...
James: He comes up from the grave
takes the captivity captive, takes them up into heaven,
there they are... so we see,
the Sabbath is a vital part of this
because even before we fell, the Sabbath called us to rest,
in everything God had created for us... without us...
there was nothing we could point to...
we couldn't point to that tree and say,
"Hey, did you see that tree over there...?
God made the trunk, I put on the branches,
He did the leaves... I did... " nothing... nothing...
Yvonne: Right... right...
James: so even before the fall, every...
all the glory went to God... all the glory went to God,
so now, after the fall, we have a problem with that
because we want to get a little bit of glory, don't we?
yeah, see, but see... Jesus trod the wine press alone
and the people were not with Him,
so He re-creates us, by Himself,
but He does it for us.
Ivor: So the Sabbath is a sign... the seal...
that, "I am the Lord that sanctifies you... "
James: Yes... exactly...
Ivor: "You don't sanctify yourself...
I sanctify you...
so if you... if you think you can sanctify yourself...
then don't keep the Sabbath, you know,
but the Sabbath is a sign that
I am the Lord that sanctifies you. "
James: It's reminding you to "rest in me. "
Ivor: "It's not self-sanctification,
it's not self-righteousness, I am the one that sanctifies. "
Yvonne: So for anyone who says,
"Well, the Sabbath is just for Jews...
because it was given to the Jews
or by Moses to the people... " that is not the case,
it was instituted at creation.
Ivor: It is a sign of redemption
so if you are ever in tribulation
and the Lord delivered you,
He says, "I want you...
I delivered you, keep my Sabbath... "
that's the sign that you remember
that I delivered you out of bondage,
bondage to drugs, bondage to music,
bondage to... whatever it is... bondage to being in the world,
when you are delivered, the sign that God says,
"I want you to keep as a... as a...
as in honor of that... is the Sabbath. "
And if anyone watching has a question about that,
they can send their video questions to:
Yvonne: sss@3abn. org
sss as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs.
James: Salvation in Symbols and signs
and this is all about salvation in symbols and signs,
it's all about Jesus,
take us out with a word of prayer, Jason.
Jason: All right... "Dear Heavenly Father,
we just want to lift you up and praise you and thank you so much
for blessing us with all your many promises
and the Sabbath and giving us a day of rest
and all the signs of the times that you provided
in Revelation which is what we're coming to know
as a love story, thank you for the opportunity
to be here and learning this and helping us
to comprehend what we are studying
we pray this in Jesus' name, amen.
All: "Amen... "