Revelation chapter 5, Revelation chapter 5...
we finished with Revelation Chapter 4,
we got a picture of the throne that's set in heaven,
which we identified as the end of the controversy...
at least in heaven over God's throne
His Justice... His Mercy, we have a picture of 24 elders
which we identified as the redeemed,
the multitude raised with Christ after His resurrection
they received the robes,
they're sitting on thrones, they have the crowns...
things that are promised to the churches that overcome,
to Smyrna, to Philadelphia, to Laodicea
and now we're going to understand why...
well, how did they get there?
Revelation 5... kind of layers over Revelation 4
kind of like Genesis 1... Genesis 2...
Revelation 5 gives us a fuller picture
of how all of this happened,
how did God's throne get established in heaven?
How has His justice and mercy been qualified by
all of the unfallen universe
so that they see that He is just and merciful,
How is it that these elders are redeemed?
Revelation 5 gives us the answer to that
so we're going to jump into that, have a word of prayer,
Yvonne, would you like to pray for us?
Yvonne: Sure, sure... "Father God,
once again, we come before you with open hearts
grateful for the privilege of studying your Word...
and grateful for your presence,
so we welcome you in this place,
we invite you to be with us and guide us and direct us
and thank you for my brothers here and my son,
help us Lord God to continue to move forward in your Word
to greater and deeper understanding,
in Jesus' name, amen. " All: "Amen... "
James: And then we're going to do our traditional thing
which is very, very good tradition and that is...
we're going to read through the Scriptures,
I'm looking to you Jason to start us off,
you can read about half of this, there's... there's
about... what...? fourteen texts here
and if you could read about seven of them
and then maybe, Yvonne, you can read the next seven,
we'll just go through them here.
Jason: "And I saw in the right hand of him
that sat on the throne a book written within
and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice,
Who is worthy to open the book,
and to loose the seals thereof?
And no man in heaven, nor in earth,
neither under the earth, was able to open the book,
neither to look thereon.
And I wept much, because no man was found worthy
to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon.
And one of the elders saith unto me,
Weep not: behold the Lion of the tribe of Judah,
the Root of David, hath prevailed
to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.
And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne
and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders,
stood a Lamb as it had been slain,
having seven horns and seven eyes,
which are the seven Spirits of God
sent forth unto all the earth.
And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him
that sat upon the throne. "
Yvonne: "And when he had taken the book,
the four beasts and four and twenty elders
fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps,
and golden vials full of odours,
which are the prayers of saints.
And they sung a new song, saying,
Thou art worthy to take the book,
and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain,
and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood
out of every kindred, and tongue and people, and nation;
And hast made us unto our God kings and priests:
and we shall reign on the earth.
And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels
round about the throne and the beasts and the elders:
and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand,
and thousands of thousands;
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb... "
oh yeah, oh... I love this...
"Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power,
and riches and wisdom, and strength,
and honour, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven,
and on earth, and under the earth,
and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,
heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory,
and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne,
and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.
And the four beasts said, Amen.
And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him
that liveth for ever and ever. "
James: What a beautiful picture.
Yvonne: Oh, worthy is the Lamb that was slain.
James: This... this has to be one of the most
glorious chapters in the entire Bible and it is rich, rich, rich
there is... we could break it into three sections,
there's... there is a problem that is exposed to John,
a problem... because there's a book that's sealed up
and can't be opened and it causes him to weep
and so... this is... this is the problem...
the dilemma that faces John and then the next section,
there is a solution to the dilemma,
the solution is brought forth, the Lamb is able...
and... and we see that solution
we see a response to the solution
and then we see in the third section
we see the overall response of the entire universe
to what the Lamb has been able to accomplish.
Yvonne: Ah...
Ivor: So John is weeping because
evidently these seals contained the future of humanity,
James: Yes... Yvonne: Hmmm...
and he sees that without this happening... humanity is doomed.
James: He sees it... in fact, let me just take you to
a verse in the Old Testament
because again, we want to emphasize that
a lot of the Book of Revelation is symbols that are broken open
in our understanding of the Bible itself,
so the terminology of the sealed book...
sealed on the inside and the outside...
sealed up so that no man can open it,
that terminology... and written...
is borrowed from the Old Testament,
there's a verse in Ezekiel chapter 2...
Ezekiel chapter 2 and we're going to look here at verse...
well, let's look at verses 9 and 10,
Ezekiel chapter 2, verses 9 and 10
and it says here, "And when I looked,
behold, an hand was sent unto me: and lo,
a roll of a book was therein;"
verse 10, "And he spread it before me;
and it was written within and without:
and there was written therein
lamentations, and mourning, and woe. "
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: Okay, on the throne, there is a scroll,
it's sealed up with seven seals,
it has writings on the inside and on the outside,
and no man in heaven and no man on the earth,
and no man under the earth can take that scroll... that book...
and open it and break those seals,
and John begins to weep, why?
Because according to Ezekiel,
that scroll represents the history of the world.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: It's written on the inside and the outside because
it is complete... every decision,
every... every action... the history of nations,
is all contained in this roll, but it's sealed up...
in other words, our faith is sealed up,
the history of this earth could be summarized
in these words, Lamentation and weeping and woe.
In the New Testament, it could be summarized this way,
"All have sinned and come short of the glory of God,
and the wages of sin is death," that's the summation
of what's written in this roll, now, the Bible says,
"The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof,"
so that's why He has the scroll,
even though Satan is counter claiming this earth,
according to Job chapter 1,
he's saying, "No, the earth is mine... I've been too and fro,
I've been up and down, I've been checking it out... "
you know, when you buy something, you check it out,
especially if you're buying a used car,
or a piece of property, you check it out,
you go, "oh, check... " he's been checking...
he says, "The earth is mine... " God says, "No, no, no...
you haven't considered my servant Job... "
so... so there's this contention taking place,
that the scroll is sealed up, the destiny is sealed up,
no man in heaven... are there men in heaven?
Ivor: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: Outside of the 24 elders, are there men in heaven?
Ivor: No...
Yvonne: Well, you want to talk about... like, Elijah...
James: Yes, yes, yes...
Ivor: Yes, yes, yes, yes... I didn't understand the question
James: All right, the layperson corrects the theologian.
All: laughter...
James: How did Enoch get to heaven?
Yvonne: Translation...
James: Translation... without seeing death.
I mean, he had this close walk with God, right?
Jason: Wasn't he like... 300 and something years' old?
James: Yes... yeah... and... and... and...
he got married and he had a son and that changed his life...
changed his life... because I remember when my son was born,
I remember the feeling of love and protection...
the feelings that I had toward that little baby
when he was born... I couldn't even...
I couldn't even write it out, there was just these emotions
and these feelings that came out where I just...
and I saw God
in a completely different way than I had ever seen before,
if I loved this boy like this,
how much more does God love me, unconditionally...
it was just incredible,
Enoch had this walk with God that was so close
that one day... as they were walking and talking together,
God said, "Hey, Enoch, we're closer to my house
than we are to your house,
why don't you just come home with me?"
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: Can Enoch open the scroll?
can Enoch change our destiny,
can Enoch change our destiny with death?
No, it doesn't matter how close you are with God,
it doesn't matter what our connections...
if we're... if we're getting ready to be translated...
but the world, the lamentation, the death...
that is our destiny and that's why John is weeping...
no man in heaven... no man in earth...
no man under the earth...
can alter that destiny with death
and as he is weeping, one of the elders comes to him
and the elder says, "Weep not... "
seven letters comprising two words
that bring us to the rest of the story, "Weep not... "
and then what? See that's the gospel...
"Weep not, dry your eyes... " and then what?
And by-the-way, it's the elder, it's one like him,
one who is redeemed, one you can relate, okay,
that's our job... and then the elder says,
"Behold the Lion of the tribe of Judah... "
and that is the secret... God isn't asking us to...
to overcome... He's not asking...
let me just clarify that,
He's not asking us to take the roll
and to change our destiny with death
and to do that which only the Lamb can do,
He's asking us to behold the Lamb...
now is it important for us to behold the Lamb?
It's vital... it's vital... it's the secret to success.
Yvonne: Man! that's some rich... this is rich...
I never even noticed that the... one of the elders
said it... "One like him... " I've read this a ton of times...
but never... it just never connected,
"One like him... " said, "Weep not... "
James: It's because we've identified the elders,
and once we've identified the elders,
then we realize... "Wow! they've got a part to play in this...
we've got a part to play in this...
we've got a part... they've got a part... "
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm... James: The whole...
Ivor: They're... they're the down payment as it were,
you know, "Look, we're here, so, weep not
the reason we're here... is because of the Lamb
that was slain from the foundation of the world. "
Yvonne: Hmmm... hmmm... hmmm... hmmm...
James: Behold the Lion of... so he's looking right?
He's looking for this Lion of the tribe of Judah,
he's looking around, this Lion of the tribe of Judah,
and what does he see?
He sees a Lamb as it had been slain...
and this is where the symbol of the Lamb is first introduced
and when it's introduced,
it's introduced in relation to being slain...
in other words, this symbol represents the cross or Calvary,
the Lamb slain is directing us to Christ crucified,
Christ crucified is now the central theme
of the Book of Revelation because we're going to see
this symbol of the Lamb repeated over and over again
throughout the Book of Revelation.
Whenever it says, "They followed the Lamb...
the Lamb's Book of Life... " it's talking about the cross,
it's talking about Calvary, it's talking about that focus...
that we... it needs to be central
with the Christian experience, "Behold the cross...
look to the cross... meditate on the cross...
spend a thoughtful hour a day meditating on the life of Christ
especially the closing scenes
because that is the key that is the secret.
Ivor: So, as we look at this particular verse,
it points us to a Lamb as it had been slain,
in other words... John is looking... he is seeing,
"this is Christ, after His resurrection... "
so here's what we can tell from this,
remember, we talked about...
this is the prelude to the seven seals,
remember we said, one through seven represents
a complete cycle of time, so the beginning...
the opening vision lets us know when do we start looking...
what time do we connect that first seal with
and when does it end,
so what we know is that the first seal,
must begin sometime shortly
after the death, burial and resurrection of Christ,
right, because the opening vision...
John sees Him as a Lamb that had been slain,
so now we know,
"Okay, well, whatever this first seal is,
it's going to have to be some time shortly after the death,
burial and resurrection of Christ... "
and what we can now double check that... right,
when we jump over to the churches
and we see... "Well look, the first church
is just after the death of Christ,
so the first seal is going to parallel the first church. "
James: Yes... Yvonne: Ah...
Ivor: So now we're checking in multiple ways.
Yvonne: Okay, we're doing time and location.
Ivor and James: Time and location.
James: And there is something else here too
in this verse, verse 6, it says,
"And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne
and in the midst of the four beasts,
and in the midst of the elders,
stood a Lamb as it had been slain,
having seven horns and seven eyes,
which are the seven Spirits of God
sent forth into all the earth. "
Now, Ivor was just saying, "We have Calvary here... "
but also what we have... is... we have the Spirit of God
sent forth into all the earth,
in chapter 4, in verse 5, "And out of the throne
proceeded lightnings and thunders and voices:
and there were seven lamps of fire
burning before the throne,
which are the seven Spirits of God. "
In chapter 4 and verse 5,
the seven Spirits of God or the Holy Spirit...
that's what's being represented here,
is before the throne,
in chapter 5... it's sent forth into all the earth,
what makes the difference? Yvonne: Hmmm...
Jesus said, "I'm going to go to my Father,"
this is after His resurrection. Yvonne: Right...
James: "and I'm going to send you a Comforter... "
actually He said it before His resurrection,
"I'm going to send you a Comforter... "
so, here is another confirmation of the timeframe,
this is showing us that this...
the timing of the opening of the first seals
is going to be in the Apostolic Age...
when Jesus ascends to the Father,
when His sacrifice on Calvary is accepted
and when the Holy Spirit is poured out.
Yvonne: Okay... Ivor: So we have Pentecost.
James: We have Pentecost... one more thing here
and I think it's really powerful,
I want us to go back here to verse 5,
there's a lot in verse 5 and let's just start unpacking it,
one of the elders... we noticed that that was connecting us
to people who had been redeemed,
said unto me, "Weep not... " gospel...
"behold, the Lion of the Tribe of Judah... "
this is how we experience the gospel...
by beholding Christ... "the Lion of the Tribe of Judah,
the Root of David has prevailed... "
James: Now let's just hang on that word for just a second
because that word...
traces all the way through the Book of Revelation,
it goes back to the churches and it goes forward,
and the word is Nikaó... it's the Greek word,
it's the same word that is used in the closing of every church
when it says, "to him that overcomes,"
to him that overcomes... to him that overcomes.
Yvonne: So... He has overcome...
James: Yes! Jesus has prevailed where we have failed.
Yvonne: Oooo... I'm getting chills...
no man in heaven... no man in earth...
no man under the earth... can prevail
but Jesus has prevailed, so look to Him...
look to... you need to overcome...
you need to... every church... you need to overcome...
well, how do we overcome?
Well, let's get into the seals, let's get into our second
outline here, our second... snap snap...
the word I'm using... going back to Revelation...
Ivor: Our second Cycle?
James: Cycle... cycle... cycle, let's go into our second cycle
because the second cycle tells us how we overcome
and the third cycle tells us a little bit more
and the fourth cycle tells us a little bit more,
you see what I'm saying, in other words,
Revelation is not just a bunch of symbols,
pointing out history... past, present and future...
Revelation is pointing us to God...
to the Plan of Salvation, to how we overcome,
we do it by beholding Christ,
we connect with Him and we're going to see this even more
when the first horse comes out,
because that same word, "Nikaó" is used
in the first horse "going forth conquering and to conquer"
it's going to be huge right there,
but we're getting a clue now,
"you need to overcome, you need to overcome,
you need to overcome... " how do we overcome?
Not any man in heaven, not any man in earth,
not any man under the earth,
the way you overcome is by looking to the Lamb,
He's the one who has prevailed, where you have failed,
Yvonne: Ah... yeah...
James: Key principle, key truth that's being taught here.
Ivor: Yeah, so I want to point out something else here
same chapter... same verse rather...
verse 5... it says, "One of the elders said unto me,
Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah,
the Root of David, has prevailed to open the book... "
so... so one of the things that we should do...
whenever we're studying the Scripture...
a term jumps out to you...
term that looks like... "Hmmm... what is that about?"
Always try to go back and see if we can find more information
on that term... and so... this "Root of David... "
that seems like a...
just kind of like a weird term to put in there,
right in the middle of this... "the Root of David... "
so what in the world is that talking about?
"The Root of David... " how is Jesus the Root of David?
Well, if you go back with me to the Book of Isaiah chapter 11
Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 1...
Isaiah 11 verse 1 actually makes that same mention
and here's what it says, Isaiah 11 verse 1...
we'll also go and look at verse 10...
it says, "And there shall come forth a rod
out of the stem of Jesse,
and a Branch shall grow out of his roots... "
okay... all right... so, wow, there is where that term is from
and let's look at verse 10,
"And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse,
which shall stand for an end sign of the people;
to it shall the Gentiles seek: and his rest shall be glorious"
Yvonne: Hmmm...
Ivor: Okay, so this root of Jesse points us to
something else because now we want to know...
well, Stem of Jesse, we're like...
where does that story of Jesse and David come from
and actually it comes from the story of Ruth...
so let's go back to the Book of Ruth...
let's go over to Ruth chapter 4...
Ruth chapter 1 actually... and in the story of Ruth...
I'll try to summarize it but Ruth is married to...
I'm sorry... Naomi is married to a man by the name of Elimelech
and she has two sons and in this... in this story...
Elimelech dies...
James: You're having a hard time finding Ruth?
Yvonne: Yeah... I forgot where Ruth is...
James: Yeah... me too...
Ivor: Ruth is going to be right after Judges, yeah.
so, you've got the Book of Ruth, excuse me...
James: Oh, it's tucked away here between Judges and 1st Samuel.
Ivor: So, Naomi's husband, Elimelech dies...
her two sons who are married to Ruth and Orpah... also die,
so she has... she literally has no hope of a future,
okay, so remember that... she has no hope...
no offspring... James: no one can prevail...
Ivor: no one can prevail...
like, she is in a situation where she has no future...
and in Israel, everyone wanted to bear...
everyone wanted to bear a child because of the possibility
of the Messiah coming through... you know what I mean?
So, everyone was... you know... who...?
so bearing a child was of the utmost importance,
now, there was a Law in the Old Testament
that if a... if... you know... a widow who lost...
a woman who lost her husband had no one to...
she couldn't marry a stranger,
she had to marry someone who was nearest of kin
to carry on the line... to raise up seed
so that that person's name would not be cut off,
okay, so... the story is that Ruth decides...
Orpah says, "I'm going back to my home... "
Ruth who was a Moabite says, "I'm going to go with you...
your God is going to be my God... "
she takes on the God... so, check this out,
Ruth is a Gentile woman with a Hebrew mother-in-law,
she's a Gentile woman with a Hebrew mother-in-law,
well, in this story... they...
they return to their home in Bethlehem
and there's a man by the name of Boaz who comes upon the scene
Boaz happens to be the nearest of kin to Elimelech,
okay and... there's actually someone closer to him
but this person can redeem...
they were not only to redeem the woman
but also the land that came with that...
with that woman... okay, in other words,
you'll see here that
they were to take on the whole responsibility...
not just... they were to raise the seed...
they were to take her in, they were to...
anything that belonged to the nearest of kin became theirs...
from the person that had deceased became theirs.
Yvonne: They called it "the Kinsman Redeemer. "
Ivor: Exactly, the Kinsman Redeemer,
so, in this story... the nearest of kin is like...
"Nah... I don't want all that... I don't want to...
I got too much going on... "
so Boaz... look with me in Ruth chapter 4,
look at what Boaz does, in Ruth chapter 4...
and by-the-way that... that... that term, "nearest of kin"
it means, "Redeemer... " it means, "Redeemer"
what is Christ doing in Revelation chapter 5?
He's standing there to redeem humanity,
okay, so, let's look at Ruth chapter 4,
chapter 4 verse 1...
James: And He's become part of our kin...
He's become part of the root... Ivor: Absolutely.
James: He's the Lion of the Tribe of Judah,
King... but He's become the root of David.
Ivor: So, look at Ruth chapter 4 verse 1, "Then Boaz...
Then went Boaz up to the gate and sat him down there,
And behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by;
unto whom he said,
Ho! such a one, turn aside, sit down here.
And he turned aside and sat down.
And he took ten men... " of the what?
"Elders of the city," so here you have Boaz...
he's calling together elders...
because he wants something to be very public.
He says, "Sit down here... " and they sat down,
and he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again
out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land,
which was our brother Elimelech's:
And I thought to advertise thee, saying,
Buy it before the inhabitants,
and before the elders of my people.
If thou wilt redeem it, redeem it,
but if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know:
for there is none to redeem it beside thee;
and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem it. "
So, first he's like... "Yeah, I'll take the land... "
but then Boaz says,
"What day thou buyest the field at the hand of Naomi,
you must also buy it also of Ruth the Moabites,
the wife of the dead,
to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. "
You have to take Ruth as well...
"The kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself,
lest I mar my own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself;
for I cannot redeem it. "
So, Boaz ends up buying the... buying Ruth... redeeming Ruth...
and the land that came with her,
what is Jesus doing in Revelation chapter 5?
He is buying the woman...
James: And the title deed includes the land...
Ivor: Includes the land...
and the elders are there to witness this redemption.
Yvonne: Wow! "Ivor: In other words,
Boaz and Ruth" is a love story,
it's a romance, now, check this out,
out of this romance comes this lineage,
Obed, Jesse, David,
if this redemption did not happen,
Naomi would not have had offspring...
guess what's happening in our...
an offspring that would have led to Jesus,
so, now, here, Jesus stands... because of that transaction
and now He's saying, "It's my time to return the favor. "
Yvonne: Wow!
Ivor: Humanity has no future,
but I want to produce an offspring in this woman.
James: For Hebrews and for Gentiles.
Ivor: That's right... Yvonne: Wow!
Ivor: So, because of Him, he stands saying,
"I will redeem the woman and the man
and because of my redemption,
she is going to have a great offspring,
a great multitude which no man can number... "
and how are they born?
1st Peter tells us that we are born again by what?
The Word of God,
what is the first seal that goes out?
The Word of God... a rider on a white horse
which is described as the Word of God...
that rider on the white horse... the Word of God goes out
and begins to multiply seed of great multitude
so the story of the seven seals,
is the story of how God redeems the woman
and multiplies the seed that ends up with the 144,000
who were redeemed from the earth.
James: And you see that in verse five too,
it's a beautiful picture. Ivor: Absolutely.
James: We're... we're running out of time so we're not...
but we're going to come back and we're going to summarize this...
bring it all together
and then move in to the last part of the verses
because we don't want to... we don't want to rush this
this is rich... this is good stuff here...
Ivor: Think about this, Christ... in the seven churches,
stands as merciful
to His Bride,
"I'm going to be merciful to you,
please repent, I forgive you, just repent... repent... repent,
under the seven seals, He stands as Redeemer,
"I'm going to redeem you, I'm going to give you seed... "
everything is a love story,
it all plugs to what Christ is doing for His Bride.
James: He's drawing His bride, He's redeeming His bride
and then... seven trumpets,
He's going to be protecting His bride
and then in the seven salvation signs,
He's going to be moving His bride forward,
"Come on, let's go... let's go, let's go...
let's go... follow me... follow me... follow me...
follow me...
my people will be your people,"
when I got married, my wife followed me...
up to the middle of nowhere... but she followed me.
So then, so then you read this again...
one of the elders came to me and said,
"Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David... "
okay, so what we're called to do
is just what Ivor will bring on...
"Behold the Root of David... ,
go back and find out about the Root of David
and how that all came about and what that whole thing is"
because, it's going to bring this beautiful picture...
this beautiful romance into the Book of Revelation chapter 5.
Ivor: So he's saying, "Behold He has redeemed us,"
right there in chapter five... "He has redeemed us... "
why can we celebrate?
Because we're going to have offspring,
much offspring, because we now have a husband.
James: Okay, questions are going to come in,
questions are going to come in in video form... at...
Yvonne: Yes, sss as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs,
@3abn. org
James: Jason, take us out with a prayer, would you please?
Jason: Sure... "Dear Heavenly Father,
we thank you for being with us once again
as we study the Word, as each part of prophecy unfolds
we're just grateful for you for revealing to us
what's to come and we're able to see
what is currently going on at the moment,
we ask that you continue to be with us
during our studies and be with the people at home
as they study and try and get an understanding of prophecy
and the love story that you have for us in Revelation,
please be with us as we depart, in Jesus' name we pray, amen. "
All: "Amen... "