That was rich... rich, rich, rich...
rich in faith and hope and love, I got more than my share,
that's how I feel right now, I just feel filled up...
filled up... we looked at Revelation chapter 5
and we didn't get all the way through
but I think it will be good for us to kind of summarize
what we do have... as we go in and finish it up
because there's so much there... it is worth going over again
and just saying, "Okay, where did...
what have we got, what have we got...
I don't know... maybe we should, maybe we should...
Yvonne: Oh no... pop quiz...
James: Boom... fill in the details...
see where our Viewers are, you know,
well, let's pray at least first, shall we? All right, Ivor...
Ivor: "Heavenly Father, we want to ask you
that you bless us as we open your Word,
Father, we thank you for the
bread of life that you give to us,
that you feed us Lord, you ask us to pray,
'give us our daily bread' and so we're praying that today Lord,
give us this day our daily bread,
fill us with your love, with your grace
and we just pray this in Christ's name, amen. "
All: "Amen... "
James: So, we got a problem and we got a solution,
we got a response to the solution, what's the problem?
What's the problem in Revelation chapter 5?
Jason: No man could open the seal.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... so what?
What is that... what's the seal, what do you mean,
"No man can open the seal?" What does that mean?
What is that... what is that... what is it talking about?
Jason: Foretelling the future of humanity.
James: Yes, our future is sealed up,
our fate is sealed up and no one can alter it,
no one in heaven, no one in earth,
no one under the earth, we looked at Enoch, I mean,
he had a close walk with God, he's in heaven,
he was so close with God
that God said, "Hey, come on home with me"
he cannot alter our destiny with death,
this scroll is the history of Planet Earth,
it's written inside and outside,
there's nothing missing and it's sealed up
and it's in the hands of the Lord because
"the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof... "
but Satan is contending for it,
he's contending for us and this planet, he wants it,
and so there has to be an answer
but John doesn't see an answer and how do we relate...
what was the Old Testament story related to that?
Ivor: So we connected it to the story of Ruth
because we see it at a term, "the Root of David... "
which we saw... points us back
to that story of Ruth in which Ruth and Naomi...
don't have a future because their spouses have died
and so, they have no hope of a lineage,
that's the problem in that story
and we saw that there was a beautiful parallel
between the story of Ruth
and Boaz... who steps up to be the redeemer,
he's the nearest of kin,
that word literally means redeemer,
so the problem... just going with the problem...
is... they have no future, they have no future,
no lineage, no offspring, that's the problem
which is the same problem of humanity
in Revelation chapter 5, there's no future,
our future is sealed,
doomed... death... destruction, that's the problem.
James: And then we went into the solution
and the solution is... the Lamb, the Lion of the Tribe of Judah,
the Root of David,
He has prevailed where we have failed,
He has done for us what we couldn't do for ourselves
and it's really powerful because one of the elders...
and we identified the elders in Chapter 4
as one of those who's been redeemed,
one of those who is raised with Christ,
one of the elders comes to John and taps him on the shoulder
and says, "Hey, John, weep not... "
answer... solution... "behold the Lion of the Tribe of Judah,
behold the Lion of the Tribe of Judah...
you're not called to prevail, you're not called to overcome,
you're called to connect with Christ,
He's the One who has prevailed and as you connect with Him,
you will overcome...
as you connect with Him, you will prevail,
because He's the prevailer, He's the overcomer. "
Ivor: We parallel that again back to the story of Ruth
and Boaz is the answer to Ruth's problem,
right, Boaz comes... he calls... remember in the story
he brings the elders together in the gate...
where is Jesus gone?
He's gone into the gates of heaven,
He gathers the elders and then...
He's making this purchase not only of Ruth
but of the land that was part of the whole package,
if you will, and so... here you have Christ saying,
I'm going to redeem the woman, by-the-way... that woman...
is a Gentile woman with a Hebrew mother-in-law,
this New Testament Church...
but her mother-in-law... Hebrew... Old Testament church.
James: She was a Gentile...
Ivor: Exactly, and what does she say?
"Your God will be my God... " right,
this is exactly what the people in these churches,
"You're people will be my people... "
so, and it's interesting because
Ruth's job is to work in the field,
to bring in the sheaves, that's what she's doing
and that's what attracts Boaz's eye there,
"Who is this woman who is working in the field?"
Right, and so, in a greater sense,
that "working in the field" is bringing in the sheaves
and that's... that's what Christ wants to happen
within His church, He wants her to multiply
multiply seed... offspring... and so,
it is because of Christ's redemption...
Christ saying... "I'm going to take this woman as my own,
and if you take the woman, you got to take the land too. "
"Yes, I'm going to take the land too... "
He's redeeming...
and that's why the chapter uses that verse...
"they're excited because He has redeemed us... "
our Boaz has stepped in...
so it's like Christ saying, "Look... "
we were talking about this earlier,
that He set up that story of Ruth and Boaz,
because if that did not happen, Jesse would not have come,
David would not have come,
and the Messiah would not have come, technically speaking,
so He's... He's saying,
"Look, just as there would be no hope for the Messiah
if that redemption did not happen,
so I stand before you now, as the Root of David,
remember, remember, so I'm showing you now
that had I not stepped in, mankind would have no future. "
James: And it's inclusive, God is inclusive...
so, we don't just go to the New Testament
and try to argue that... "Yeah, after the... the...
the crucifixion of Christ and the gospel went to the Gentiles,
and they were included... "
the Gentiles were already included,
they were always included,
the story of Ruth as well as others proves that,
because it shows us the lineage of Christ, Messiah,
Redeemer Himself as connected to the lineage
that is bringing us back to the Gentiles as well as the Jews.
Ivor: Absolutely...
James: So we have it right there in the history,
we have it right there in the lineage of Christ Himself
and it's a beautiful picture if you think about it.
Ivor: It's a love story...
James: It's a love story...
and that's what I like about this
because the Book of Revelation is going from one love story
to tell us the ultimate love story...
Ivor: The verse we talked about, we used 1st Peter chapter 1,
tells us that we're born again by the Word of God
right, and we see there the first seal,
is a rider on a white horse
which Revelation 19 identifies His name...
the name of the rider on that horse is "the Word of God,"
and so James one...
James: Yeah, it's twelve tribes scattered abroad,
Ivor: The twelve tribes scattered abroad...
James: That's who James is writing to...
Ivor: Right, and he says, of... what does the verse say?
James: "of his own will begat he us with the word of truth,
that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. "
Ivor: So, we're "begotten... by the word"
that's what Christ was saying in Revelation 5 demonstrating,
"Listen, I'm going to take this woman to myself
and raise up the name of the dead... "
James: Yes...
Ivor: that's what was happening in the story of Boaz
and it literally says,
"Boaz came to her to raise up the name of the dead... "
so Jesus says, "Okay, we're going to produce now... "
how does He produce? By His Word...
born again, born again,
a great multitude is being formed
that are... the Bible tells us "redeemed... "
these are they which were redeemed,
there's that word again, there's a kin...
redeemed from the earth, so it's a beautiful picture
that Christ is showing us in Revelation chapter 5
which, again, sets the stage for our understanding
of what the seven seals are all about.
James: Hmmm... hmmm... Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: And the 144,000... of Revelation 7 are called
the first fruits in Revelation 14...
they're the first fruits.
Ivor: Absolutely, so now you begin to see why these words...
they're not just thrown in there,
why is it calling them "the first fruits?"
Why does it say in Revelation 14,
"These are they which were redeemed... "
because Revelation 5 is trying to prep our minds,
"go back to the story of Ruth...
see what's happening there so that you can understand... "
look, if there was no Ruth...
we kind of talked about this a little bit earlier...
jumping a little bit into the seals but
the second seal is a rider on a red horse
which represents death, without Christ, right?
James: That's our destiny... Ivor: That's our destiny...
James: There's no white horse...
Ivor: There's not white horse...
James: There's a red horse, there's a black horse...
there's a pale horse, but there's no white horse.
Ivor: But because of what Christ does...
when the seals are opened up, you see a white horse first.
Yvonne: Hmmm...
James: So, history just got altered.
Ivor: "I jumped in between you and death"
James: Yes, yes, history has been altered.
James: So now, no man can alter history
but Christ is able to take and alter history,
He has altered history, so now when He opens the seals,
we see a different history and we see a different destiny,
we see... we see... what could have been
and what will be for some...
but we see something different taking place.
Ivor: He's our Prince on the white horse.
James: Yes... we have a whole...
He has re-written the history of the human race in Himself,
He's the second Adam...
He's the second head of the human race,
and in Him... we have a different destiny,
in Him, every human being has a different destiny.
When we talk to...
to Sister So-and-so... and Brother So-and-so...
because every person at the gas station,
every person at the grocery store,
every person that we meet is a brother or a sister,
we talk to them and say, "You have a destiny in Christ,
Christ has re-written your history
your history is bleak according to...
the scroll of this world...
but your history is rich
according to the destiny of Jesus Christ. "
James: And that is why we have response now,
okay, now we're going to do response,
that is why we see the response that we see,
the response that we see first comes,
let's just look at it again in Revelation chapter 5,
Ivor: You just said that Christ is the second Adam
and that's just such a beautiful picture because
He's the second Adam that marries the church
and the first Adam was death,
the first Adam... you know...
we're under that sentence of death,
almost like Boaz coming in to replace that...
that fallen husband... Christ comes in and says,
"Listen, I'm the second Adam...
just as the first Adam was put to death
and the bride came from his side,
so I have stepped in now, I die on the cross
and from my open side... comes forth... a new Eve... "
James: Wow! the water and the blood...
Ivor: The water and the blood, so, it's... it's... it's...
again this is a love story
from like so many different angles He's saying,
"Look, I'm coming in because your first husband led to death,
first husband... there was no hope...
but in me... you have a future.
James: Hmmm... hmmmm... yeah, that wound in the side...
at Calvary... that brought forth water and the blood...
the heart of Christ was broken
and that broken heart brings forth a new Bride,
we are created out of that broken heart,
we're created out of that water and that blood,
we're cleansed and we're empowered,
we're forgiven... it's a beautiful picture...
the story goes on... so the response...
the response... oh! in verse...
chapter 5 in verse 7,
now, I just want to touch on verse 6 again
because it talks about how "he beheld and lo,
in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts,
and in the midst of the elders,
stood a Lamb as it had been slain... " Calvary...
"having seven horns and seven eyes... "
and when we look at that seven... we're talking about
all inclusive... complete or perfect...
horns represent power,
eyes represent God's ability to see,
He's all powerful, He's omnipotent...
and He's all seeing, He's omniscient...
He's all powerful and all seeing okay, so this power...
all power... all-seeing God...
is now going to send this power out into all the earth,
the Holy Spirit is the third person of the Godhead
that's going to come to represent God
and fill His disciples on earth... Planet Earth.
Yvonne: What is "seven horns?"
James: Seven horns represent God's power... God's power...
the eyes represent His seeing, His omniscience...
the horns represent His power, horn is power,
so seven is just complete or perfect,
God is complete in perfect power...
and He's complete in perfect omniscience...
and He's sending all that power through His Holy Spirit to us...
on Planet Earth, then there's this response,
we are a little bit overwhelmed but can you imagine
the elders that are there
and the living creatures that are there,
you got to put yourself in their place in a sense
because the living creatures,
the representatives of all the unfallen universe,
the angels, the living beings that are there
are just... they've been sitting through this
for thousands of years, they're watching... watching...
and finally, it's come... finally it's come...
victory has come... and they are just...
notice the response... "And he came and took the book,"
verse 7, "out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne"
Jesus is not taking the book,
the Lamb is not taking the book from God,
because God and the Lamb are one
but He's taking possession of Planet Earth
because God has been allowing Satan's accusation to continue
and there it sits in His hand untouched
but there's still controversy over it...
"No, no more controversy now, we have been given to the Lamb
we are the possession of Jesus Christ. "
Yvonne: So when He took the book
from the hand of Him that sits on the throne,
He... it wasn't that He was snatching the book,
He was accepting his assignment is that it?
James: Yes, He was accepting the reward...
He was accepting the fact that He has redeemed us,
"It's yours... here you go... "
it's kind of like when you go and you pay off your car,
you pay off your house and you go to the Bank
and they give you the title deed,
are they doing you a favor?
Are you ripping it out of their hand?
No, they're giving you what is yours.
Yvonne: Right... I got it...
James: So God is giving Christ what is His...
and that that is His... is us...
it's not just a piece of paper, no, this is us,
this is the whole planet, "What? know ye not
that you are bought with a price. "
Ivor: Yes, that's right.
James: "You've been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb,
you are not your own, yes, you're not your own. "
Ivor: That's exactly what Boaz does,
it actually says, "He purchases Ruth... "
that's what Christ did for us, He purchased us with His blood,
I want you to think about that... that excitement...
think about how bleak it must have looked
for Naomi and for Ruth and then think about the joy that...
it says the women named this...
so there was happiness in the Community,
"oh... " you know, women like go... "Oh... oh... "
well, this is the whole universe, sometimes like,
I don't know like... women are different than men,
and women love to know, I think,
what's going on in other people's lives
and they really, really, really get excited about it,
the genuinely get... "Oh... " you know...
and they get excited... and I'll be like...
"Oh great... " but they are...
"Oh... Susie got married... oh... "
and everyone's excited and I'm like,
"Okay, yeah, Susie got married, great...
what about the Bible... "
and it's almost like the universe is watching
the days of our lives... and they're genuinely like...
"Huh... because of Christ... look, humanity now has a future,
and there is genuine excitement,
you see what I'm saying... in heaven?
They're not excited for like... themselves...
they're excited because of us, you know what I'm saying,
that look... that lost sheep out of the one hundred
that now has a future again that is not returned
because of what Christ has done for them.
James: I love that, that's beautiful,
so... so... " he came and took the book out of the right hand
of him that sat on the throne.
And when he had taken the book," here it comes...
"the four beasts and the four and twenty elders
fell down before the Lamb,
having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odors,
which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sung... " verse 9... "a new song, saying,
Thou art worthy to take the book,
and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain,
and has redeemed us to God by thy blood
out of every kindred, and tongue, and people,
and nation;" it's not done there...
"And hast made us unto our God
kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth. "
Now, this is incredible, when you look at this picture
because we're not only redeemed, God doesn't leave us there,
sometimes, you know... oh yeah, "I'll accept Christ,
I'm redeemed and now I'll just go on living... "
no, God has made you kings and priests,
now a king... has dominion, he reigns...
he has sovereignty, you... on this earth...
you are king... you're not a servant,
you're not a slave to Satan or to sin...
you are a king now, you have sovereignty,
you're in charge and you're a priest,
now, priests point to the other side of that coin
in the Old Testament there were kings
and there were priests, but we're both...
we're both... we are kings, we have power,
we have sovereignty and we are priests,
in that... we are called to specifically connect with God
on a spiritual level, intercede for ourselves and for others,
we're called to this experience that God wants us to have
that is outlined in all the Old Testament
and even in the New Testament as priesthood...
you have priesthood... and you have kingship...
and this is what God wants to do beyond
simply forgiving us and redeeming us,
He wants us to step into a new relationship with Him,
it's identified as being kings and priests.
Ivor: It's interesting that what God calls us here
and what He desires... this king... kingship...
and priesthood... are spiritual, He wants us to be kings
and priests through the Holy Spirit...
it's very interesting that Satan is seeking to counterfeit
this kings and priests with his concept of
Church and State... which is outward control,
you know... outward force and it's quite amazing...
Satan seeks to counterfeit everything... every good thing
that God wants to do
so He says, "kings and priests...
I've made you kings and priests,"
what is Satan going to do? As we read through the book,
he's going to try to counterfeit this... this combination
and make it so... that it is external... outward
while nothing
is happening on the inside.
James: And he's going to make it singular.
Ivor: Yes.
James: And in fact, some translations of the Bible
will say, "I've made you a kingdom of priests... "
now that is not what God is talking...
because in a kingdom, there's one king...
there's one president, there's one head
and we all look to him,
"No, I've made you kings and I've made you priests... "
each one of us has responsibility over ourselves,
we don't give that responsibility
to another human being,
that responsibility is ours before God,
"I've made you kings and priests...
not a king... but kings and priests... "
so it's individual in our relationship with Him
and it's powerful... really.
Yvonne: It's also interesting to me...
when... when people... are going through hard times
and everything... know that God wants to elevate us,
to a different position not just you know...
not... not feeling lower than
but to elevate us to a different position,
we are kings which means the head of something
and priests which is the spiritual head
so... it's... it's like God is saying,
"I'm taking you to a new level... "
James: And I like that because
even though we are under presidents
and under government, there is a sense in which
each one of us has a sovereignty
and I think this Country of America stands for that
at least in its Constitution
that there's this individuality that we have
that does not come under the dominion
of any government or any king...
and there's this individuality we have
that does not come under the... the... the...
control of any religious system
or pastor or priest or anyone like that...
we ourselves are to connect with God in prayer...
in confession, in intercession,
and we ourselves are to be accountable to God
in our understanding our beliefs when it comes to
the things that have to do with our internal salvation
with the Kingdom of God...
we have to obey the laws of the land...
we have to obey the kings and the presidents...
that's important... but in these in these areas where we know
it's eternal and it's spiritual, we have one person
that we give account to and we are sovereign
in our relationship with that person
and that's really important here
because the blood of Jesus Christ
has freed us to be able to do that
and that's why we can't allow anything to step in
between us and the blood of Jesus Christ,
there's no other atonement... no other sacrifice...
nothing else... that can step in between that place
because it frees us to be the kings and priests
that we're called to be.
Yvonne: Right... right...
James: Okay, so then it goes on here and it says,
and this is where it gets even more intense,
in the last few verses
and I'm just going to be honest with you,
these last few verses 11, 12, 13 and 14...
when I first started studying the Book of Revelation,
I was just all about prophecy, all about it,
oh man! I had a cassette tape... now...
Jason, you may not know what a cassette tape is...
Jason: I was around... I was around for the 8 track...
James: It's okay, all right... and I would put that tape in
and I would listen to the half the Book of Revelation,
flip it over... and I just went through that
till it quit working, I mean... it...
I loved the Book of Revelation but I really got bored
like, "Okay, why do they have all these... "
I'm just going to say these "praise interruptions"
interruptions of praise I call them,
I mean, there are four verses and it is... it's four verses...
but when we look at the word count
it's probably half of the chapter is praise
and in chapter 4... same thing...
you know, "Holy, holy, holy," and they're all praising God
and they're all praising God, and they're all praising God...
and I'm like... "What about prophecy,
what about the beast, what about the Mark,
what about... you know... what is all...
why are we wasting... and I'm thinking,
"Wow... " now that I look back I am realizing,
because I missed the point, I missed the purpose of praise,
I missed the response because like Ivor said,
when you're... when you're going to a wedding,
when you're seeing people married...
you're excited and you're happy and you're just...
you're loving it and you want to just savor the moment
because... and it's just this time of rejoicing and praise,
and I wasn't going to the wedding...
I was looking for the prophecies...
I was looking for the history
but I wasn't going to the wedding
and when we actually step into the wedding,
we realize the bleakness of our situation...
we recognize in chapter 4 God's throne is set finally,
it's set... the rainbow is there,
justice and mercy has been reconciled,
the elders are there... down payment in earnest,
when we realize and we see this big picture...
and how it took place and...
and the impossibility for us and yet...
what God has accomplished for us... we get excited.
Ivor: There's a serious danger here because...
there's a Bible principle that says,
"By beholding... we become changed... "
and what we behold... in the Book of Revelation...
I mean, think about it, if our focus is on the beast,
the beast, the beast, the beast, the beast,
right... and "I just want to see the beast... "
James: Yeah, we're escaping...
Ivor: I want to see the beast, what begins to happen is
you may not realize it but your character
is not balanced by beholding the beast
and so, we can become very...
"You know what... I mean, just... "
James: beastly... Ivor: beastly...
man that guy is a beast... you know...
but so... so the Book of Revelation
is not the revelation of the beast
it's the revelation of the Lamb...
right, so the Lamb is the focus and the beast is secondary
it's important... we need to understand the beast
but if we don't have the character,
we might end up becoming like the beast, right,
knowing the truth but our hearts are very beastly.
James: This is really important because
in Revelation it says
there's this group of people who follow the Lamb wherever He goes
and the rest follow the beast... Ivor: Hmmm... hmmm...
James: and the way we are tells
whether we're following the Lamb or we're following the beast,
are we following the Lamb on a daily basis
or are we following the beast
because ultimately, we follow one or the other
because of the decisions we're making daily.
The other things I love about these verses is
they give us a little bit of a picture...
a little bit of a taste of eternity...
Revelation's seven churches does that, you know, you have...
"I want to make you a pillar in the temple,
I'm going to give you a new name with a white stone"
and... and... here we see...
it says here... let's just read the verses again
"And... and I... " verse 11...
"And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels
round about the throne and the beasts and the elders:
and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand,
and thousands of thousands;
Saying with a loud voice,
Worthy is the Lamb that was slain
to receive power, and riches, and wisdom,
and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature... " verse 13...
"which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth,
and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,
heard I saying, Blessing... "
this is pointing all the way to the very end of times
see... it's going to give us a little taste,
a little taste of what it's going to be like
when everything is made new,
that's what Revelation does in the churches, in the seals,
it's a little taste of...
all the way down to the very end.
Yvonne: This also gives a little taste of the
fourth commandment too
"the earth and under the earth and such as are in the sea,
and all that in them is... " you know...
James: And verse 14... "and worshipped him... "
Ivor: Remember the location... right, the Table of Shewbread,
where is the Table of Shewbread? It's in the sides of the north,
what's happening there? That's where, every Sabbath,
the priests change the bread
showing that the Table of Shewbread
reveals Christ as Creator, that's why it's His throne,
because He's creating so... this context of redemption...
the Sabbath also is a sign of redemption...
it falls right in line with everything we're looking at
in chapter five... preparing us for the seals,
it's all about redemption... redemption... redemption.
Yvonne: Wow! James: Beautiful... beautiful...
We...
we are ready to open the seals,
yes, we are ready to open the seals... now because see...
understanding the seals is predicated upon
understanding chapters four and five of Revelation,
this is all about... what is this all about...
and when we get this figured out,
we start opening the seals, "Oh! wow, yes, got it now
now it makes sense because we got this...
we got... so... this... this is beautiful...
this is... it's in our pocket, God has blessed
and now we're ready for the seals,
now there may be some people who have some questions
that they want to ask video questions,
where are they going to send those questions, Jason?
Jason: To sss@3abn. org
that's "s" as in Salvation in Symbols and Signs,
@3abn. org video submissions, of course.
James: Yvonne, close us out with prayer, would you?
Yvonne: Yes, sure... "Oh Father God...
what a rich study in your Word,
thank you for being the divine designer,
we know that this is not by happenstance but by design
so we praise you and thank you so much
and as we continue to study your Word...
we pray for continued guidance
for your anointing and your power and your presence Lord,
thank you, in Jesus' name, amen. "
All: "Amen... "