Okay, now we're in a really interesting part of Revelation,
not that the other hasn't been interesting.
But now we're into of the this part
about this four mysterious horses.
I mean, it's taken us 18 meetings to get this far.
Yeah, but it's been good
because we're not ploughing through,
we're taking it in bite size, morsel you know,
it's digestible this way,
so that it's just not over whelming.
In the past for me,
many times it's been overwhelm, you know,
you just trying to read it through
and you just cant connect the dots,
but this is just you know, it's digestible.
So, I'm loving this.
Yeah, this is deep book
that a lot of people don't even want to touch.
That's true.
Because it's just...
you know, all that lot of people says.
Yeah, I like the fact that we're going slower.
It's a good point.
I mean, we could have just 18,
we could almost finish the book in 18 meetings, right?
But I think you're right, I think we need to go slow,
we need to process it, these are keepers by the way.
These are thorough studies in the Book of Revelation,
deep stuff, good stuff.
I like the fact that we are,
when you and I were talking we decided we'll cover,
trying to get into may be Revelation 12 or 13,
may be in the first like five or six you know,
programs and no,
we've been moving through this much slower, so praise God.
You know,
but now the implication is J and I am kind of slow.
So we're not...
The implication is we're enjoy this
and just eating slowly.
Oh, see, you fixed it, you fixed it.
Better clean it up.
Yeah, that's right, that's right.
You must have been practicing with the taunting.
You guys are hand picked, by the best.
Because that's, you're right, we need to slow this down.
You know, one of the dangers that I think we face...
I remind, let's just say,
preaching, teaching Revelation
for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, okay.
We're familiar with book,
we're familiar with the material,
we know what it says,
and so we've this danger just taken off.
Like these horses, we're just gonna just take off
and we're just gone, run in gallop.
You know, like, "Wait, wait, wait for us."
So you're here for purpose
at least to slow us down a little bit
so that we can connect with people
and they can follow through with this,
and get it, and understand it.
So I liked that, I like this mix.
I think it's really-- Yeah, me too.
Okay, four horses. Okay.
Four horses
We got four horses coming out of the seal book
and then we got three other seals,
really the four horses, just a quick over view,
are the first four of seven seals.
Jesus Christ, the lamb, symbolized here as a lamb,
representing the cross in Calvary,
according to Revelation 5,
is the one who has taken the book form him.
It says, son of throne, he's about unseal it,
Revelation 6:1.
And as he unseals the first four seals,
these horses go forth.
And in the fifth seal, the sixth seal, seventh seal,
the silence in heaven about the space
of half an hour.
Now we want to remind ourselves that this is again,
repeat and enlargement upon the seven churches.
That was the history from the early apostolic age
down to the second coming of Jesus Christ.
Now we're moving into the seven seals,
we're going to repeat, enlarge that same history.
We're going to go back to the apostolic age,
with the first horse, seal unsealed,
and we're gonna move all the way
through that same history
all the way to the second coming of Jesus Christ.
Two reasons why we know this really clearly.
Reason number one,
when we get to the sixth, and seventh seal,
we know its second coming of Jesus.
I mean, it's going to be obvious to us
it's the second coming of Christ.
And when we start in Revelation 6
with the first seal been unsealed,
we see this horse, and this rider with a bow,
and a crown, and it's white,
and the implications there is it something victorious,
something powerful is taking place
because this horse and its rider
are going forth conquering and conquer.
So, let's start, Jason, by reading the verses
and then we'll get in to understanding them.
Revelation 6:1-2.
We didn't had prayer yet.
Let's start with the word of prayers,
then we'll get into reading the verses.
That's good. That's good.
All right.
Dear Heavenly Father, thank you so much
for allowing has to be together once again
and studying your word.
Lord, as we take a look in Revelation
we ask that you would help us to fully comprehend
what we're studying
and to be able to retain the information
and share with others.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen. Amen.
All right.
So, the lamb open six seals okay,
"And I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals,
and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder,
one of the four beasts saying, come and see.
And I saw, and behold a white horse,
and he that sat on him had a bow,
and a crown was given unto him,
and he went forth conquering, and to conquer."
And when he had--
Just stop right there. Okay.
First seal, lets just start with the first seal.
All right a few observations here as we start.
The lamb is a symbol of the cross of Calvary.
The book is a book that sealed and no man can open it,
no man in heaven, no man in earth,
and no man under the earth.
It is a book that covers the history of humanity
in the context of Biblical truth.
In other words, this is Gods book,
so its God's record of biblical or God's record of our history,
biblical record of our history.
What I'm trying to say is
this book is sealed to our understanding.
That's what it means when it says sealed,
we can understand it.
There was another book in the Old Testimony
that was sealed for little time,
the Book of Daniel.
And the reason why it was sealed
because the Daniel couldn't understand it.
So, the point is that
when a book is sealed in Bible prophecy,
it means it can't be understood.
Now the Book of Revelation isn't sealed.
But the book that's revealed here
in the context of Revelation 6 is sealed.
But here's the key, the lamb opens it.
The lamb represents the cross,
the lamb represents the Calvary.
So, it is in the mystery of the cross,
it is in the mystery of Calvary
that every thing that is sealed is going to be opened.
So this is it's revealed through the cross.
Its revealed through the cross. Okay.
The cross is the mystery
that unlocks all other mysteries.
So when you look,
and this is why this is important to be honest
because when we look at the four horsemen,
we have a lot of theories up there.
We have lot of ideas over for horsemen,
that's talking about, you know there is Russians,
and then there's the Chinese,
and there's big conflict taking place,
and there is death, and there is,
you know all of that kind of stuff.
The first thing we want to look for,
when we look at the four horses,
is we want to look for Calvary,
we want to look for the cross,
we want to look for the plan of salvation.
Because it's the mystery of the cross
that's unlocking these seals,
it's unsealing these seals and showing us what it is
this actually means.
I would also add to that, that remember the structure
that we talked about
that you find in the Book of Revelation,
as it related to the sanctuary.
And we saw that you know, the seven candle sticks unfold,
I'm sorry, the seven churches unfold
under the seven candle sticks.
The seven seals we saw unfolds under the table of showbread
and the seven trumpets unfolds under the altar of incenses.
All those are located in the holy place,
and the priest are, when he minister at one,
he was minister at the other.
It was a simultaneous minister.
So, we know that whatever we're looking for
in the seven seals,
they must run simultaneously with the history
we've seen in the seven churches.
And so, this is how we can know,
we're not looking for, for example,
the first horse to be something that happens, you know...
In the first century, yeah.
All right.
We're looking for things that must correspond
with the seven churches.
And as we get to the seven trumpets,
we are now looking for things that must correspond
with the seven seals and the seven churches,
which means the further we going to the study
is the more,
the most firm the foundation is to help us
understand everything else that comes.
So I want to share something as we get into the first horse,
this first seal that really helps again,
I think to set the foundation.
And it deals with, again, what we've just mentioned,
these seals unfold.
The opening vision here is at the table of showbread,
and the reason we know that
because when we read Revelation 4:5,
the bible tells us that before the...
The throne, there was seven lamps burning.
So we know that these seven lamps
are located directly across from the throne.
When we go to the Old Testament sanctuary
we see that the article furniture
that was located directly across
from the seven branch candle stick
is the table of showbread.
Okay.
Let me just show these three things very quickly
that we need to be looking for consistently
right throughout these seven seals.
The table of showbread
is located on the side to the north.
Now you remember that in the Book of Isaiah 14:13,
Lucifer wanted to sit on the sides to the north.
Why?
He actually says,
"I will exalt my throne above the stars of God,
I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation
on the sides of the north."
Yep.
So what is the mount of the congregation?
That's God's people.
And what's on the table of showbread?
Twelve loaves of bread.
So those 12 loaves represent the people of God.
What a Satan wanted to do?
He wants to rule over those people.
So what we can know then
as we look at these seven seals,
they going to reveal to us
the conflict between God and Satan
over the mount of the congregation.
In other words, this is Satan trying to insinuate himself
over the mount of congregation, right.
Two more things very quickly, the second thing is this,
the word of God, the table of showbread
with those loaves of bread on it
represents the word of God.
"Man shall not live by bread alone,
but by every word that precedes out of the mouth of God."
So we can also expect that the seven seals
will reflect some kind of controversy
over the word of God.
And finally, and I will read this here,
I have it open on my computer, Leviticus 24:7-8.
In Leviticus 24:7-8, it reads this.
"And thou shalt put pure frankincense
upon each row
that it may be on the bread for a memorial,
even an offering made by fire unto the Lord."
Talking about the table of showbread.
Now listen to this,
"Every Sabbath he shall set it
in order before the Lord continually,
being taken from the children of Israel
by an everlasting covenant."
So the table showbread, not only bring our attention
to the mount of the congregation,
not only to the word of God,
but also specifically to the Sabbath of commandment.
In other words, the table showbread
brings our attention to the fact
that every seven days, every Sabbath,
that the bread was to be changed.
So as we go through seven seals,
here's we need to be looking for.
Number one,
how is Satan trying to insinuate himself
over the mount of congregation?
God's people. God's people.
Number two, how is he doing this?
By seeking to put his word
over the God's word or corrupt God's word?
Got it.
And number three,
what does all these have to do with the Sabbath?
And I will tell you this, James, its amazing
because right at the end of the six seals,
you have a group that is introduced.
They are called the hundred and forty four thousand.
And guess, where they're seen standing in Revelation 14?
On mount Sinai.
Which is where? On the sides of the north.
And they are also sealed with the seal of God.
And there are seals...
Direct us to the Sabbath Seven seals,
the hundred and forty four thousand
is mentioned right within the context of this battle
over the mount of the congregation,
the word of God or the law of God,
and the Sabbath specifically.
Now I really like...
Go ahead. Oh, yeah.
I just want you to go back over numbers two and three.
So yeah, how is Satan trying to rule the God's people?
Mount of the congregation, number two is the word of God.
How he's undermining God's word.
Right, "Man shall not live by bread alone
but by every word."
And number three, the Sabbath commanded specifically.
Because the showbread was changed
out of every Sabbath, every seventh day.
Yes. Okay.
And of course, God rained bread down six days
and that was a test pointing to the Sabbath.
The manna. The manna.
That's didn't come on Sabbath.
Okay, now in relation to that, those three points,
and it's interesting there's four horses
because three of the horses are actually representing
Satan seeking to undermine, undermine, undermine,
but one of the horses, the first horse,
the white horse actual represents God.
And we not only are going to find out
what Satan is doing in the seals,
but we're also going to find out
how we can be protective from what he is doing,
by connecting ourselves with Jesus.
Now the first thing I want us to do is,
look at a couple of Bible verses
that are going to help to identify this white horse
and it's rider
because we want to understand who this horse is.
It's the first one. Right.
It's going to be important for us,
if indeed it is a representation of Jesus.
So Revelation 19,
by the way this is really important
because we're keeping large,
all of the things that we're going to see here,
we're going to see enlarged upon
as we go to the end of the book,
and Revelation 19 is an enlargement
upon this horse and it's rider.
Revelation 19 is speaking here
and beginning here with verse 11,
about what we can consider to be
the culmination of the battle of Armageddon,
the battle for the mount of the congregation.
And it's talking about the time when Jesus returns,
which is also included in Revelation 7,
the sixth, or seventh, sixth and seventh seals.
So Revelation 19:11,
"I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse."
Okay, there's a white horse in Revelation 6:2,
and now here's a white horse in Revelation 19:11.
The first principle of Bible study,
especially prophetic Bible study
is to let the prophecy interpret itself,
let the prophecy interpret itself.
Don't jump out there and look somewhere in the world
for some kind of news report
that's going to talk about this guy
that bought a white horse and he wants to rule the world.
And so you know,
he's riding this horse to every different nation,
and just trying to get people to follow him.
No.
Well, James, James, you know that there are people
who teach that this rider on a white horse is antichrist.
I understand that.
And it's you know, that's just a total violation
of the time period we're looking at.
The Bible interpreting itself.
So these are some of the conclusions
you can come to when you don't allow the Bible
to be it's own interpreter.
And we want to weight those, you know,
we want to weight those,
because Paul did talk about antichrist
rising up in this time you know, et cetera.
But we also want to recognize these,
what's the evidence?
Let's look at the evidence. Okay.
Evidence number one, in the context of Revelation,
we have an interpretation for the white horse.
It says, "I saw and behold the heaven was opened,
behold a white horse and he that sat on him
was called Faithful and Truth,
and in righteousness he judge and make war."
And it goes on here, now, this is really interesting.
"His eyes was a flame of fire, his head were many crowns.
He had a name written which no man knew,
but he himself,
he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood
and his name is called..."
"The word of God." "The word of God."
"The word of God."
And in the beginning where's the word?
Yes, and the table of showbread represents the...
Wow. Okay.
So we've seeing the connections here,
it's really simple.
This horse and its rider is the symbol of Gods people,
Gods church, and Jesus Christ.
They are connected here, okay, they are connected.
Now let me give you a, let's look at an Old Testimony verse.
This is a hard book to find,
so I'm just gonna give you the reference
so you can write it down.
I'll find the verse and read it.
It's Zechariah 10:3.
Zechariah 10:3, this verse says,
I'm just going to have to put my glasses here,
because so I can't fake it any longer.
"Mine anger was kindled against the shepherds,
and I punished the goats
for the Lord of hosts hath visited his flock
the house of Judah,
and made them as his goodly horse in the battle."
Okay, God says, that horse is the House of Judah,
the House of Judah
is my goodly horse in the battle.
The horse is a symbol of God's people.
When Jesus comes in Revelation 19,
he is not riding little horse, he is coming with his angels.
And we know that he's gonna bring all of his people,
resurrect them, and they're gonna be with him.
So the symbol in here is from the Old Testimony.
The Old Testimony tells, "My house,
Judah is like my goodly horse in the battle.
Now here's what the symbol is in so significant, okay.
You have any horse's right here?
Oh, yeah.
Danny's got like..
What does it take to ride them?
Don't look at me. Okay.
All right.
In order to ride a horse,
now it's not everyone has to just,
but most people you have to have bridle
and reins, right?
Okay?
We're the horse and God is asking us
to give him the reins of our heart.
He wants us to be connected with him,
so he can turn us to the left,
he can turn us to the right, he can hold us back.
He can gallop us forward.
In other words, Revelation 6:1-2
is a representation,
a symbolic representation of God and his people
connected together.
And when we connect with God,
we go forth conquering and to conquer.
Ivor, you have some thoughts on that?
Revelation 12:11, the Bible says,
"They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb,
and by the word of their testimony,
and they loved not their lives unto the death."
You know, The word of God, which when you look at this,
the word of their testimony
and you think of that double connection
that we often see in the Book of Revelation,
the word of God
and the testimony of Jesus Christ,
the word of their testimony is not their testimony,
it's a testimony of Jesus Christ.
So now, you know speaking about those reins,
you know, when you conquer something
you control it, it's, yours.
So Christ is going forth
with the word of God to conquer us.
So I was conquered back in, let's see, 1996,
that's when I was conquered.
Amen. Right?
So each one us can look and say,
"Yeah, I remember when I was conquered by that rider
on the white horse."
And the reason
that the word of God goes forth, remember,
in the context of the mount of the congregation,
how do we overcome?
It is by the word of God and by our testimony.
So God, Christ is basically in this seal,
he is fighting
on behalf of the mount of the congregation.
Those who abide by the word of God
are the one's who will be in that end time,
that final picture of the mount of the congregation
standing on Mount Zion, on the sides of the north.
Amen.
And I love the phrase, conquering and to conquer.
Yes. He conquered you in 1996.
Conquered me 1984, and he continues to conquer.
So everyday we give our hearts to Jesus,
and every day we give him our passions,
everyday we give him our anger,
everyday we give him our weaknesses, our failures.
And he takes those
and he implants in us his grace, and his love,
and his mercy, and his justice, and his righteousness,
and he conquers, he conquered, and he is conquering.
So what we were saying is that the first seal
actually parallels the first Church.
Just as a first Church was, you know,
the Church of that was in a condition
where there was a zealous, that white horse,
The word of God is what made them zealous.
Right?
So the rider on the white horse
represents a period in the early Church
where they were firmly based upon the word of God.
So in a historical sense,
we're looking at the time period
of the early Church.
But guess what that rider,
even though he began riding "symbolically", you know,
at the resurrection of Christ
and that the out pouring of the Holy spirit
on the day of Pentecost,
the rider is still riding to this day.
Amen.
The rider is still riding to this day.
And what we're gonna see with the seals
as we go through them
is that even though the seals have a beginning point,
each one of them actually takes us
straight down to the second coming.
Because guess what?
The rider on a white horse will be symbolically riding
all the way down to the second coming.
So these seals now overlap,
but they begin and then move down to the second coming
and we'll see that as we moved through the seals.
So the seals don't start and then stop.
Right.
Oh, I always thought it started
and then that was the end of that one
and then the second one came
and then that was the end of that.
Okay, let me clarify that so that we can get this clear,
because that's a really good point.
They start and stop in the sense
that they have a...
An historical...
Historical stopping and starting point.
This is where they are in history.
But they don't start and stop in relation of the principles
that they bring forth.
Unpack that a little bit.
So history, the early Apostolic Church,
in love, and let me just give you another symbol in here
because it says this white horse rider has a bow.
And that bow is an offensive weapon.
That's what we think of it as an offensive weapon,
talks honest, that is the word.
If you trace that word through the book of revelation
not the word itself, because it's only used here,
but the base from which it comes from,
it's used five times in Revelation 12.
And that word in Revelation 12 describes
the woman bringing forth the man-child.
The man-child was brought forth by the woman.
See, a bow brings forth things,
shoot an arrow, brings it forth.
So this bow connects with Revelation 12
that describes the woman,
the Church bringing forth Jesus.
So the early Church, all they talk about is Jesus.
All they bring forth is Jesus. "Stop talking about Jesus."
"Oh, no, I can't, can't stop talking about Jesus."
See, that's the victory right there, that's the key.
Now, this was the early church, this was their history.
They were filled with the Holy Spirit,
and they were everywhere,
and they're just talked about Jesus all the time.
That history began and ended.
In other words, that history,
the early Apostolic church
came to an end at a certain point
when pagan persecution start to pick up,
and that comes to another series.
And then dark age has picks up,
and that comes to another section of history.
And then you got another section out there.
But the idea of the people
being united with Christ over coming,
and always talking about Jesus will continue on.
That will continue on.
You can't get rid of that, you can't designate
that to a certain time in history, and say, oh,
it was in that time of history.
Today, we don't talk about Jesus,
today, we don't overcome.
They did that in the early Apostolic church.
You see what I am saying?
So the history is powerful
as long as you allow it to inform you
on your present experience.
Then that history is like, yeah,
in the early Apostolic church they did this,
and that was the time frame from the time the Christ,
you know, upward a spirit, until about AD,
you know, 9,100 or 8,100, that was the church history.
But the principles, the things that they did,
those best spirit that they had,
we wanna have that today,
that's gonna continue on to the very end of time.
Exactly, that's good.
And we'll see that in every, same with the churches.
Church is first love.
Oh, that was the early Apostolic church,
they lost their first love and everything go off them.
Can we lose our first love today?
Yeah, we can lose our first love today.
So in principle, we still see those things applying to us
but that church history is first and foremost,
it's the foundation.
And the meaning why that's important
is because in order to get the meaning
of what's going on there you have to have the history.
If you take that white horse and you say,
oh that's antichrist.
Well, then we don't get any meaning
of being connected with Christ, and overcoming,
and speaking about Jesus,
we don't get any, cause that's the antichrist.
So none of the history matters to us.
You see what I am saying? Right.
That's something in the future, doesn't matter.
It's the early Apostolic church,
if that's the history
then all of a sudden we can bring
meaning out of that,
that takes us down to our time
and really gets a practical and powerful.
Yeah. That's good. It is.
Now, God doesn't put these symbols in here
for no reason,
and each one of these words are significant.
For example, we talked about the crown.
I mean, we talked about bow,
representing our weapon to bring forth Christ.
And many times we're tempted
to take another method in the way that we teach
or preach or the way that we practice our religion.
We tempted to go in different direction
and that's what the other horses
tempt us to do is may be to persecute,
you know Christians were persecuted.
May be they compromise.
Oh, we compromise with a world, we can win the world, you see.
No, our weapon, our bow is Jesus.
It represents bringing Christ.
"I, if I be lifted up will draw all men unto me."
All. So, he is our weapon?
Yes. Jesus Christ then crucified.
That was what the early church did,
and that's what God is calling us to do.
So you know one of the ways you can look at it
in the term of in an idealistic senses today,
and will see this is as we go through the rest of the horses.
Every one of us owns a horse or will riding a horse.
Question is, what horse are you on?
Which one are we connected with?
Yeah, are you riding the white horse?
Or are you riding the red horse?
Or are you riding the black horse?
Or are you riding the pale horse?
So we'll see that in a sense of just principle, right?
Each of these has a certain time period
in which they're fulfilled,
but these principles continue to go on,
through out time and like I said,
the rider on the white horse does not stop riding.
You know, this gospel, because that's the gospel,
that's the word of God going forth.
And by the way, in Isaiah 8:16 it says,
"Seal the law among my disciples",
"seal the law among my disciples."
The word of God going forth is ultimately what seals us
and prepares us to be ready for the coming of Christ.
It's what makes us able to stand
when it's time to stand.
And all this that we're talking about now
is setting us up for the end of Revelation 6.
Now, we're running out of time,
so we want to remind our viewers a few things,
but I can't remember what we need to remind them of.
Can you remember? The questions.
If you have any questions, you know,
if they have any questions that they wanna ask,
they can send an email to SSS,
as in Salvation in Symbol and Signs,
@3abn.org.
It's amazing that I can remember, you know,
the Book of Revelation, all they said.
And the email address. That's all right.
That went very fast, we still got a lot to cover.
Even in the first horses a few more thoughts here
and we're gonna just unpack it, unpack it, unpack it.
But let's close with the word of prayer.
Will you close this, Yvonne? Yes, sure.
Father, what a blessing this is to be able to see
just how you have just put layer upon layer
in this book,
and in each verse and we can find you,
Lord Jesus, in each verse.
We thank you, we thank you, God,
that you are revealing yourself to us
through the Book of Revelation.
So we thank you, and praise you,
and bless your name, and we just pray
that we will be able to stand when you come, Lord Jesus.
In your name we pray, amen.
Amen.