Amen. Amen.
We have so far uncovered some beautiful truths
in Revelation 6.
The white horse seen here
going forth conquering to conquer
is a picture of Christ united with His people.
We are liken to a horse according to Zechariah 10:3.
And this whole idea
of going forth conquering and to conquer
is a picture what Christ brings to us
through His righteousness,
through His life and His death for us.
So we haven't finished with the white horse yet,
but we are gonna be primarily focusing
on the next horse in this program,
this session together so.
But I do want us to review just a little bit before we move on,
because there is a couple of things we missed
and there's a couple of things you want to just maybe recap,
and then we move into the red horse
and focus on that.
But let's began with a word of prayer, shall we?
Jason, would you pray for us? Sure.
Dear heavenly Father, we thank You for another day
of study Lord.
We invite You to be here with us,
help us to understand the truths
that You have in your precious word.
Help us to a comprehend them
and to be able to retain what we've studied
in Jesus' name we pray.
Amen. Amen.
So let's read again Revelation 6:1-2.
Yvonne, would you like to read those verses for us?
Sure.
"And I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals,
and I heard as it were the noise of thunder,
one of the four beasts saying 'Come and see'
and I saw, and behold a white horse,
and he did sat on him had a bow,
and a crown was given unto him,
and he went forth conquering, and to conquer."
So when we're looking at this,
we're looking at all of these different symbols,
and we notice that the white is something
that represents righteousness
throughout the Book of Revelation,
about 12 times that word is connected with Christ,
with His people, with the robe of righteousness,
and it's really important to see that,
because we're going to notice that later on these colors,
these other colored horses
are identified with certain images
in Revelation, identify who it is.
So we want to identify this white horse
and we identify the color itself
with things that are godly.
And then the horse himself
and the rider with the white horse
in Revelation 19:11.
And then the bow we connected with the child
been brought forth in Revelation 12.
This is just review.
And in Revelation 12, so the bow,
the weapon is the message of Christ
being brought forth as our savior
and then the crown, stephanos not diadem,
stephanos which is a victor's crown.
So this is all about victory.
So far God's people
in the first section of the churches
had been covered with kind of a defeat.
I mean, they just, they need to overcome,
they need to overcome, they need to overcome.
Revelation 4 and 5 opens up with one who has overcome,
Jesus, the Lamb.
And now, Revelation 6 opens up with a people
who connect with Jesus
and because they connect with Jesus,
they get to overcome.
Amen.
Oh, I'm sorry,
I just had a question about the four beasts.
Would you review what that is?
So these four beasts are identified in Revelation 4,
and we look there in Revelation 4
at the identification,
an eagle, a calf, a lion and a man.
Now these are kind of symbols of the work that they do.
The beasts are living creatures.
They're angels. Isaiah 6 brings that out.
These living creatures are around the throne
and angels work in harmony with the Holy Sprit,
and they do work like, they come in the form of men.
They come to this earth to minister
and that would be the symbol of an ox, to minister.
Every man in the Old Testimony had his ox
like we all have our car, you know,
and the ox plows the field and does the work.
So they're ministering,
they're coming in the form of human beings,
they fly like eagles, and they also have authority.
The lion is a symbol of authority of kingship,
authority, they have authority from heaven.
So when we go about our daily business
when we're doing Bible studies, when we're doing evangelism,
when we're doing outreaching work,
opening the word of God,
when we're taking people to the Book of Revelation.
Angels are actually working in harmony with us.
And angels are bringing people, touching people's hearts,
and bringing people "hey, check this out,
this guide, there's some stuff here,
you need to come and see this, come and see this,
come and see this" trying to break down that fear
and open up that door, that avenue.
So angels are working together with Jesus,
come and see, come and see.
And I think one of the points
that I think is really important for us to understand,
is that when we--
Remember we talked about in last program how, you know,
this rider on a white horse goes forth conquering
and to conquer.
And we talked about the years
that we were conquered by Christ,
you know, when Christ overcame,
you know, pulled us out of darkness and made us.
When you conquer someone,
they become your prisoner, you know.
And Paul even writes, you know,
he calls himself the prisoner of the Lord.
What does that mean?
He's been conquered by the Lord.
And so, you know,
when I become a prisoner of the Lord,
when the Lord conquers me,
then His mission becomes my mission.
Amen.
So now I'm to go forth conquering.
When I go, give a Bible study, when I'm witnessing,
you know, to other people of the Lord and His goodness.
The goal, the mission is to conquer,
is to conquer, is to, you know,
bring that person out of darkness
into God's marvelous light.
The connotation of a prisoner makes people think like,
"Oh I don't have any will."
Right.
But that, but the real deal is,
we're going to be a slave or servant to someone,
either to God or to Satan.
So it's not as though, you know, we're not gonna be.
We have our own.
We do have a choice,
we can go with God or we can go with Satan.
That's our choices.
So the word prisoner, if we say,
"will you gonna be a prisoner?"
like any inmate is watching this would be like,
"oh I'm not gonna be a prisoner."
But the whole idea is,
you're going to be conquered by either God
or the enemy, Satan.
Yeah, and thing that I like this,
the Bible and the Old Testament describes that term,
use a term prisoners of hope, prisoners of hope.
There's a whole different concept that being a prisoner--
Now, that switches it.
Yeah, if I could be a prisoner to joy and happiness,
man, lock me up.
Yes.
Say that prisoners,
it does have a very negative connotation
like a, for me
even if you put the hope in there it's just,
I hear prisoner and so that really just--
Here's another word, captive.
I'm captive to my wife's love. Yes.
I'm captivated by her. Absolutely.
I like. I like that. Come on now, come on now.
Well, we're talking about, it's a love story
It's a love story. It's a love story.
So when Paul talks about being a prisoner,
he is talking about being captive
because Bible defines God as love.
So we're captive to love. Yeah, you're prisoner of love.
Oh man, lock me up.
Aren't you locked up right now?
Yeah, definitely. You're locked up.
Now that word means something to you, right?
Yeah. I'm a prisoner.
That doesn't sound half as bad.
Take me prisoner, Tiffany, take me he's there.
Yeah, that's good, that's good. Good stuff.
The other question that I had
was the phrase conquering and to conquer,
and that suggested sanctification to me,
like this, this process,
this life long process where I've overcome this in
by the power of the Holy Sprit not my own,
and then now the next phase,
like I still have this, this and this
to deal with, right?
So Jesus came conquering,
and to continue to as I walk that journey,
continuing to conquer.
Yeah. Am I, is that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Is that the right interpretation of this phrase?
Absolutely.
And if you take this back to, you know, Revelation 12-11,
they overcame him.
Been other word for overcome, conquered.
They conquered by--
Same Greek word.
Yeah, by the word of the Lamb, by the blood of a Lamb
and the word of their testimony.
If you go back to the seven churches,
what is Jesus appealing into each of those churches?
What is He saying to him that--
Overcome.
Overcome, okay how do we overcome?
Come and see. Come and see.
You overcome by the word.
So the answer to the question,
the answer to the dilemma of, you know,
to him that overcometh is found in that white horse
and that overcoming means, not only overcoming,
you know, others, you know,
bringing them into to the gospel truth
but it means overcoming yourself.
You know, overcoming the tendencies
that we have to, you know, to do evil, to do wrong.
So the Bible says, do not be overcome with evil
but overcome evil with good.
That's a really good verse,
that's in Romans Chapter 12, right?
Yes. Romans Chapter 12.
Yeah, we need to reference that verse
because we're gonna be moving into the next horse
and the next horse is going to be an opportunity for us
to use that verse.
Do not be overcome of evil but overcoming with good.
So, as Ivor described this overcoming
as it relates to us
and it relates to an evangelism,
there's also gonna be this other obstacles
identified as horses.
A red horse, a black horse, a pale horse
that are going to come into our path
and they're gonna need to overcome.
And again, they represent history.
Primarily they represent history.
But if we don't get the history right,
how can we make the application overtime?
So the history has to be right first,
and then we see the principles and how they apply to us today.
If the history of the white horse
is antichrist, then what principles,
how does that anything in that horse,
white horse area,
anything in that white horse description apply to us?
If the history of the red horse isn't accurate,
how can we make the application to us?
So the Book of Revelation points out the history,
identifies the history,
so we can see that history and then say, ha-ha, wow,
that same history has some lessons for us today.
What lessons do we have to learn from this today?
So, Jason, take us into this next horse.
Revelation 6:3-4 All right.
"And when he had opened the second seal,
I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
And there went out another horse that was red,
and power was given to him
that sat thereon to take peace from the earth,
and that they should kill one another,
and there was given unto him a great sword."
All right, any questions there?
Well, we got that,
should we be going to the black horse real quick.
We will save that for a little while.
We wait, I can't wait.
One thing you notice right away is that
it's the second beasts says "come and see."
When he'd open the second seal, excuse me,
I heard the second beast say, "come and see."
So immediately we understand that angels are involved again,
and it's not like saying, oh the first angel,
the first piece, the first living creature,
the first angel, came and said come and sees the first one,
it's a same one.
That first angel says come in. No, it's a second angel.
So this is deliberate.
God is telling us that they're angels involved.
Four is not this four angels in heaven
and, you know, one of them came
and then he went back and the second came.
Now, four is a number that talks about the totality,
it's a number that represents north, south, east and west.
The four angels are holding back the four winds,
means there's angels just belting the earth,
just covering the earth,
holding back the forces of evil.
Thousands times
and thousands and thousands of angels are ministering to us
and they're involved in this one after another
coming one, two, three, four
coming to encourage us to come and check out word of God
and the truths of salvation.
So these four horses then would encompass
in some way the whole globe.
In other words, these four horses
tell us of the conditions, you know, of the whole world.
You know, every one of us we talked about it,
is going to represent or it's gonna be symbolized
by one of these four horses.
Yeah.
One of the things that I liked
that we brought out in the last session
that we had was that, the seals,
the seal is opened
and that doesn't mean you go to the next one
and that's the end of that first one.
So it's kind of a continuum,
so the first seal is opened and it stays opened.
And then the next one is opened and its stays open
and to me that, I mean,
again it's something that I had never considered before
and it's just--
We're gonna see that even more as we get into this,
because when we identify--
First of all, I mean for example,
we've identified the white horse.
Well, that Jesus only go forth to conquer
in the early Christian church and that's it
or does He continue on to the very end of time.
How we got the red horse?
Wherever the characteristics are of this horse
and what the activities are,
is this just gonna be in this timeframe
or it's gonna continue on?
That's the question I've asked on each one of these.
And we're gonna see that, yes, these continue on.
These seals are opening up the mysteries
that compass the globe from here to the very end,
from their timeframe to the very end of time.
And as, Ivor said,
they represent every single human being,
comes under one of these characteristics,
so the application is--
So, what's the red? Yeah.
Interesting, last time we talked about
how the white is used in the Bible in relation to,
especially in Revelation,
dozen times in relation to things
that have to do with God and His people.
And so, that's how we connected the white horse to Christ
rather to antichrist.
The red however is connected in Revelation12
to the dragon, "The Great Red Dragon."
So now we have a color,
that is connected directly with the dragon
and we know the dragon,
Satan, the devil is the one behind antichrist.
So really if you want to identify
the work of antichrist,
you want to identify the work of the devil.
Here it is right here.
Any religion that persecutes
is in harmony with the activities of the dragon,
of the Satan, of the devil.
And let me add this, James, not only any religion,
but any power period that persecutes
is in connection with the devil.
That color red--
Any persecuting power.
So when you think of red, you know,
when it comes to the Bible,
what's the first thing we think of?
Blood. Right.
That's the color of blood. Right.
So, here you have this combination of dragon
and blood.
What is that tells you of persecution?
Yeah.
Here is a time period
'cause remember we're looking at time periods here.
So the first time period, the gospel going forth.
But that's gonna be followed by time period of persecution
and guess what, if you are to take that second seal,
and go back and check it against the second church,
which is the church of Smyrna,
which we discovered was the persecuted church
we go, oh, look at this, it's a match.
We're not coming up with something,
you know, out and that feel we've got a match here.
And that match tells us we are on the right path.
Right.
Amen, so we've got the first century church
to about hundred eight years so,
and then we got this persecution that's following.
So, this is taking us into the second and third centuries.
There was heavy persecution in a church of Smyrna.
We even saw a ten day, day for year,
ten year period from 303 to 313,
the equation boom
and tensed persecution took place right there.
And that was just before we got into the comprise
that began to take place in the church
and that was of course taken us
into to the next couple of churches.
But right here we have the same thing
taking place in the horses.
So as, Meyers, said we're following that same pattern.
The red is representing, well, look what it says here,
it says and he that sat around was given power
to take peace from the earth,
that they should kill one and other.
So, right here you having the very words,
you have this idea of peace.
Now, I looked up this word peace,
and let me just give you the definition of it,
because it's really makes a close connection
to the gospel.
The word peace here in the Greek is means,
"The Messiah's peace,
the way that leads to peace or salvation."
So, this is in a sense, this is identifying the fact
that this persecution came
specifically against Messiah's people, Christians.
And that's what we find the record indicating.
You know, there is lot of persecution
that goes on in the world.
All of the time, but in this period of time,
Christianity had developed and grown
under the apostolic age,
to become a worldwide known religion
from this tiny, you know, though, who is this messiah?
Who is this Jesus Christ?
Who are these followers claim to be?
Oh, they're from Nazareth,
that's nothing, it will go away.
You know, just let it, it will go,
it will go away, you know, but it didn't, it grew.
And Paul says the gospel was preached
to every creature under heaven
and it was in nearest household,
was everywhere,
and so now it becomes a problem.
So in this context of the apostolic age,
we have this heavy persecution coming against it,
they're not gonna just let this go away,
they're gonna try and kill it and destroy it.
Let me mention here,
let's remember some of the things
we talked about in the last programs,
specifically the location
where these seals are unfolding.
They're unfolding at the table of showbread, right?
Which is on the sides of the north.
And remember we saw that the--
according to Isaiah 14:13,
Lucifer wanted to sit on the sides of the north.
He wanted to sit on the mount of the congregation,
which is located on the sides of the north.
So, what we saw there is that the seven seals
are a depiction of this battle,
you know, between God and Satan,
this controversy over the mount of the congregation.
Satan wants to destroy
or to rule over the mount of the congregation.
So, in the first seal, you have the word of God going forth.
That is how mount of the congregation overcomes.
So, what do you have in a second seal?
You basically have Satan
going after the mount of the congregation saying.
"I'm gonna destroy you,
I'm gonna make things so difficult for you
that you will let go off the word of God."
And that's what the Roman persecutions
were really all about.
By the way, we need to,
and I think we need to stress this here
because we're gonna see
the persecution happens also under the fourth seal.
But there're two different persecutions.
So the persecution under the second seal
is by pagan Rome.
Okay, this is, we hate God and you must hate God too,
we're gonna find that the persecution--
In other words, Satan switches,
puts on a mask under the persecution,
we're gonna find on the fourth seal.
We will get to that, you know, in a future program.
But you have this open anti-god entity
that is persecuting the people of God saying,
let go off the word of God, or we gonna kill you.
Now that when you were talking about the word peace
and this is quite interesting.
I just want to read because I just pulled
a couple of sentences up online.
But, when it talks about powers given to tame,
to take peace from the earth.
During this time period, interestingly enough
there was something called the Pax Romana.
Let me just read a little bit about it,
two sentences real quickly.
It says "The term Pax Romana
which literally means Roman peace,
where first at the time period from 27 BC to 180 CE
in the Roman Empire.
It says the Pax Romana
initiated by Caesar Augustus quelled crime,
allowed for the development of roads throughout the Empire,
and gave citizens the leisure
to think about religious matters.
Well, when in the--
under the second seal when it says peace was taken.
When this Pax Romana ends,
that's when the persecution of Christians,
I mean, there was some persecution ends around 180 CE.
So there was some persecution going on before.
But after it ends--
That's right in the middle of that timeframe.
That's right, that's when it really picks up,
and you find this heavy persecution
so it's just very, I think significant
that the words here peace was taken from the earth
that they might kill one and other
is mentioned during this time period.
Now, Yvonne just took her glasses off,
when she takes her glasses off
that indicates she is gonna say something--
Right?
You are observant. Let's do it.
Well, no, I just find it so interesting
that history and it kind of reinforces,
you know, the Bible, when this was written.
This was written before that period,
so it's, you know, it just reinforces
how accurate the Bible is.
And this is just one little verse.
This is one little prophecy. Yeah.
In a book of prophecy,
in a Bible that's filled with prophecy.
Yes. And all of that is accurate.
I mean just try to wrap your mind around that.
Just try to wrap your mind around.
This is incredible, when we think about this.
All of this prophecy
and here in the Book of Revelation,
layers, layers, I'm gonna say it once,
I'm gonna say it this way, let's say it again now
and it's layers on top, let say it again
now layers on top.
The images and symbols all being different
but each one of them bringing more to the table.
For example, you know, we talked about red horse,
we talked about blood.
Well, there is a famous saying
from the time of this persecution
that the blood of martyrs were seed for the gospel,
which is gonna take us into our next horse
because that's why we have these next horses,
this transition taking place.
This compromise had to take place
because it didn't work.
And here's another point I think it's really significant
God has one way.
It's white, it's pure, it's true, it's holy,
it's undeviating.
Satan has one way,
then he has another way, then he has another way.
See he's gonna use any and every means he can,
you know, if this doesn't work, I'm gonna try this.
If this doesn't work, I'm gonna try this.
And sometimes you make a mistake
as believers to think,
"Oh, this is God and this is Satan."
No, no, this is God.
This is Satan, this is Satan, this is Satan,
he is working through all that stuff, he is even,
as we'll see he's even working through religious tithe.
That's why we said, you know, Jimmy Carter once said this,
he said the "religion of Christ never persecuted anyone."
The religion of Christ never persecuted anyone.
That's true.
So when we look at this, and by the way,
in the Roman Empire, in the pagan Roman Empire,
Christians were looked upon as atheists.
They were looked upon on us as non-religious.
That was the issue.
The religion of the Roman Empire,
the pagan religion
was the religion of worshipping the gods.
And the Christians wouldn't worship the gods.
They wouldn't burn the incense.
They wouldn't acknowledge,
they wouldn't bow down to the emperor.
They were atheists.
So they actually,
the definition of the word atheist
back in that time was a denial of the Roman gods specifically.
So Christians were viewed as atheist.
That's kind of crazy. That is.
I want to mention a point.
Well, go ahead, Yvonne, what you're gonna say.
I just wanted to clarify one thing
because I don't want any confusion about--
You know, we've the different colors
of the horses
and each one represents something,
and the white represents God and purity and all that.
I just want our viewers to know
that everybody is included under the flag of purity,
because it could be misunderstood.
And so we just want everybody that every nation,
every kindred, every tongue
and people represented under that kind of flag.
It's a flag, it's not one race, it's not one color,
it's what that represents
and it's important to make that distinction.
Well it is and here's another way
to add to that distinction.
That white horse represents Christ's righteousness
that He gives to us.
Yes. So no one race has it.
Yeah. Yes.
Nobody has that-- And I think it's important --
This is Christ. This is Christ.
Because some people will misinterpret that.
That which represents Christ, and Christ gives it to us,
so nobody has it in and of themselves.
Yeah.
I was gonna mention that I think is crucial
to understand as well is that, you know,
the Bible says think it not strange
concerning the fiery.
What color is fire? Red.
The fiery trial that is to try.
When you mount that white horse,
or when you are become symbolize by the white horse
because now you've given your life to Christ
just know
that there is a red horse around the corner,
waiting to make life so miserable for you,
that you'll give up the white horse,
that you'll give.
He wants you to dismantle,
he wants you to move away from righteousness of Christ,
so what we see happening
in the second and third century after Christ,
we can see happening on a very personal level.
You know, when I accepted the Lord,
I was so happy.
I thought things were gonna be great,
and then as soon as I accept the Lord,
persecutions begins to come.
You know, my job, my family, you know,
friends I used to hangout with, all of a sudden now,
you know, all this, you know,
issues and trials are coming to me.
But know that, that is the process
because Satan is real
and he's gonna try to get you away from the white horse.
Right, if nothing has happened unto you,
you got to kind of question that--
We do.
What am I doing in my life that Satan's leaving me alone?
Yeah.
You know, it's interesting that you'd say that
because, this year was proclaimed
the year of evangelism.
And when I tell you
that so much has broken out against before here at 3ABN
and all of that, this year, not that,
I mean we were doing it all along,
but now this is real concerted effort
to really focus on evangelism and bam.
That means Satan has just really been waging war so--
Get not estrange. That's right.
Get not estrange.
All right, we doubt we are out of time,
got about a minute left, Jason, closes out with our viewers
on how they can send their questions into somewhere.
If they have any questions they can go to sss@3abn.org.
And send an email to sss@3abn.org.
Salvation, signs and symbols?
Salvation in symbols and signs.
No signs? Yeah that too.
I'm gonna remember this, you know,
I'm gonna remember this at some point.
But we need to close out with prayer.
So close out with prayer, would you, Jason?
Sure.
Dear heavenly Father, thank You for blessing us
with the powerful study
and teaching us about the four horses,
and the angels,
and all the symbolism in the red--
what everything represents Lord.
We asked that You be with us in our future studies,
and help us to have a firm understanding of this
and help our viewers to have a firm understanding of this
and to study it out for themselves as well.
Thank you so much for blessing this day
in Jesus' name we pray.
Amen. Amen.