So we are moving right into our next horse.
There's four of them.
You got the white, the red, the black and the pale.
And all of these colors symbolize significant actions
or reactions that are working in the earth today.
So these four horses are riding through earth today,
but we've identified them
primarily first of as historic epics,
historic timeframes in the era of history,
going back to the apostolic age,
white horse, the purity of the gospel
and then coming into the persecution,
the red horse, the persecution that took place
as the gospel spread out throughout the world
and it became an issue with pagan Rome.
And now we're moving to a time of darkness,
a time when another transition takes place
in relation to Christianity
for Satan to try to work in and up and destroy
the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
So the black horse is gonna take us,
it's got another epic of time.
And we won't understand all the symbols here.
What we gonna find here as we read these verses is,
there's a little bit more here.
There's a little bit more for us to chew,
to bite often chew here, it might take us little longer
to get through some of these symbols and understand them.
But they will be, they are understandable.
So Jason, can you lead us out with the word of prayer
and then we get right into these verses,
read these verses.
Sure.
Dear heavenly Father, we ask that you be here with us
as we study about the black horse,
Lord, please bless the study
as You have all of our other ones,
in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
Amen.
Okay, let's read.
Jason, would you read for us verses.
What is it five and six, five and six.
Okay.
"And when he had opened the third seal,
I heard the third beast say, Come and see.
And I beheld, and lo a black horse,
and he that sat on him
had a pair of balances in his hand.
And I heard a voice
in the midst of the four beasts say,
a measure of wheat for a penny,
and three measures of barley for a penny,
and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. "
Okay, so this first symbol that we want to look at here
I think is the symbol of the color.
We've been doing that all the way through.
The white we connected in about a dozen places there,
it's connected to the righteousness of saints,
the righteousness of God.
So saw that in relation to Revelation 19:11
the white horse and its rider is Christ.
So we identified the horses.
Christ, His people connected His church,
connected with Him.
And then the red horse, we connected the red
with the dragon in Revelation 12:3,
the great red dragon, persecution again,
the connection was made there.
There are number of Bible verses
that we want to look at here.
And I'm thinking may be we can just kind of look at a couple.
One of them is found in Acts 26:18.
Acts 26:18.
The other one that I want us to look at is in John 3:19-21.
So, Yvonne, do you have the Acts one?
Yeah, Acts 26, which is that?
Yeah, Acts 26:18.
John 3. Okay.
John 3:19 to 21.
Okay, and...
As soon as you get there just, you just go ahead.
26:18 you said? Yeah.
Okay, "To open their eyes and to turn them
from darkness to light. "
Do you want me to do 17?
Yeah, do 17, you get it.
"Delivering thee from the people,
and from the Gentiles,
unto whom now I send thee, to open their eyes
and to turn them from darkness to light
and from the power of Satan to God,
that they may receive forgiveness of sins
and an inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith
that is in me. "
Okay, so just real quick one, you want to comment on that.
Paul here is speaking about how the gospel,
the white horse is symbolizing the gospel is turning people
from darkness to light.
So here if we borrow this,
we bring this over to Revelation 6,
we have darkness and we have light.
And Jesus is saying that
this color is symbolic of the darkness
of not understanding the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Satan is going to try to keep us in darkness.
Now let's read John Chapter 3.
Verses 19 to 21.
"And this is the condemnation,
that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness rather than light,
because their deeds were evil.
For every one that doeth evil hateth the light,
neither cometh to the light,
lest his deeds should be reproved. "
Okay, so...
Oh, is that? Verse 21.
"But he that doeth truth cometh to the light,
that his deeds may be made manifest,
that they are wrought in God. "
Now, do you noticed something significant here?
These verses are talking about people.
Talking about people specifically.
So we've already identified the horses
as representing people works.
So in this particular epic of time,
we've got horses.
The black horse representing people
who are rejecting light and moving into darkness,
who are rejecting light and holding on to darkness.
Basically that's what's taking place.
You've got people...
See every one of these horses represents people
and choices that we make.
And we'll see this even more as we get to the end of this
whole symbol or symbols summarize it all
in this incredible application of parallel
to one of the parables.
A parallel to a parable of Jesus in Matthew 13,
but right now we just want to emphasize
that sometimes when we think about horses,
we think all these horses, they must represent,
you know, these earthly beast
and the other that's going on in the earth and it's,
you know, the red horse that must be communism,
you know, and they come down and they kill,
you know, and take piece from the earth
and then disperse.
No, these horses represent people
and they represent very practical decisions
that we make in relation to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And so here we have people who are represented
as loving darkness rather than light.
And we have the gospel trying to take us
out of darkness into the light.
And these Bibles verses are helping us
to unravel that and understand,
you know, how that applies to this, to this age,
but we want to see it in relation to history.
How do we connect this to the churches
and the history that's taking place there?
What's happening in this period of time?
Let's test our students here.
Oh no.
Quiz? I'm serious.
We hate our quizzes. We hate that.
So but this one should be pretty easy.
Okay.
So this is seal number what?
This is number two, isn't it?
Number three. Three, three.
Right so, if we're looking at seal number three then,
if we need something that we can check it again,
so we can get a general idea
of what period we are talking about,
where would we go.
Would we look anywhere else in the Book of Revelation
for something that we have covered before?
The churches. The churches.
Excellent, you are doing great. The churches!
Yay!
The churches. Right.
And what church specifically
would we seek to find some kind of connection with?
What number? Three.
Number three, church number three.
And if we go back to the list of churches,
church number three is a church of Pergamos,
which is where we found compromise taking place.
And we saw that that time period
was beginning roughly around 321 A.D,
with the introduction of the Emperor Constantine,
and the compromise that began to happen
right after the persecutions of the second church period.
Okay.
So now we know, okay, this third horse,
this black horse would represent
compromise occurring
really at the time of this agreement
that is about to be made between Rome
as a nation and Christianity.
They began to come together
and mix paganism with Christianity
which would point us to the scales
that the rider on the black horse is holding,
balance, false balances.
False balances.
Yeah, we have a scale and you're trying to,
you know, you give a little and you take a little.
Right? Right.
Make it and that's what's going on here.
Hey, you know what?
We'll make some concessions, we'll make some agreements.
We'll mingle paganism with Christianity
so that everyone can be happy.
That's what begins to happen.
Yes.
And this is really interesting because as you bring that out,
there's a couple of other Bible verses
that I want us to refer to in relation to this.
The word balance here also means a yoke
or a burden or bondage, and it can refer,
you know in Mathew Chapter 11,
it talks about being yoked up with Christ.
But in other Bible verses, there's a negative connotation
to this yoke or this balance that's identified here.
And I think it's in a negative that we're seeing this.
Just like peace can refer to,
you know, the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The sword is negative in the last one.
It's a sword of persecution
but Jesus also can represent the sword.
So we have to understand the context,
that's why these principles are very important in layering
with the churches and the seals and then the trumpets,
helping us to make the connection.
So look at these Bible verses.
Look up Acts Chapter 15.
Yvonne, can you look up Acts 15:10?
And then, Jason, would you look up
Acts or Galatians 5:1?
Galatians 5:1 and Acts 15:10.
And as you're looking up Galatians 5:1,
I want to give a little bit of background
to what's happening in Galatia.
Do you have Acts 15 already? I do.
Let's start with that.
Okay, "Now therefore why tempt ye God,
to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples,
which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?"
Okay, Paul here is dealing not only with the yoke
that the Jews were trying to bring in
to the Christian church,
the yoke of the ceremonial, listen to the ceremony laws,
that they even themselves
were not able to keep and follow,
but he is also talking about legalism in a sense.
He is talking about the Judises,
they were coming in a sense undermining
the gospel of Jesus Christ
and wanting to force the Gentiles to be circumcised
and they keep these certain ceremonial laws
that really had been fulfilled in Jesus Christ.
And Galatians 5:1?
Galatians 5:1, "Stand fast therefore in the liberty
where with Christ have made us free,
and be not entangled again with a yoke of bondage. "
Okay, so here, the yoke of bondage
is again coming in suddenly to the church
through this Judisers,
where they're wanting to observe
in the context of Galatians'
years and months and days,
all of these different holidays and formalisms.
Christian formalism that was trying to come in
to the early church
and that's exactly what we see taking place
during this darkness.
We see a mixture of paganism and forms and ceremonies
with the pure gospel of Christianity.
And so it's truly significant here
because the balance actually deepens the symbolism
of the black horse because in this case,
it is referring to these forms of legalism
that are eroding the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Slowly eroding, eating away at the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And end up coming to this fruition
in this incredible edifice of forms and ceremonies
that the church becomes down
toward the end of this period of time,
and something that the gospel has to break through
point by point.
We'll be looking at this point by point
and recover the brightness
and the purity of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And its freedom. Yeah, and the freedom.
Because the holy yoke, the whole idea
that there is a yoke here and legalism is a yoke, it is.
And so many people are just so bound up in legalism
that they don't know the freedom that comes
with actually knowing Christ in that.
And not having to be just so...
heavy-laden...
Yeah, havey-laden. With the burden.
Yeah.
And what's interesting about this is that, you know,
that the Bible here is talking about these pair of balances.
These are false balances, and let's just made that word
singular, false balance.
So this idea of, you know, hey, let's be balance man,
be careful because sometimes, you know,
whose definition of balance.
Right. You know what I'm saying.
So now in the early church you have this.
Look, you know, we don't have to keep God's law the way
that He wrote it.
Let's compromise a little, you know,
let the pagans do their thing, be balance.
You know, don't be so, and so, you know,
on a very practical personal level.
White horse, you're on fire,
you know, they have the gospel.
But then the red horse comes along,
persecute you, oh, man,
and so the tendency when we become persecuted is,
what can I do to stop this persecution,
I know, I'll compromise a little bit.
Let me just kind of cool that,
and that's what the devil is trying.
You know, on a very personal level,
devil wants to get you connected
with that dark holes.
So that now you're balancing, I mean, your false balance,
you're compromising,
and this is exactly what is happening
in this church period,
where they begin to compromise with paganism,
and the mansion here
that actually speaks about in that verse 6.
"I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts
saying a measure of wheat for a penny,
and three measures of barley for a penny. "
Okay. Yeah.
So what are bread,
you know, indeed barely and wheat
are ingredients for bread.
What is bread symbolized in the Bible?
Jesus often.
Symbolizes Christ, and it symbolizes His word.
Man does not live by bread alone,
thy words were found and I did eat them.
So you've got the table of showbread,
remember in the sanctuary symbolism,
and the table of showbread represents,
you know, you got the live witnessing,
you got the altar prayer,
you got the table of showbread,
partaking of the word of God.
Two stacks of 6, 66 books in the word of God.
So God is bringing these symbols alive
and He is pointed out, He will make a connection again
with the sanctuary in the sense with the bread.
What does it mean for a penny?
See, a penny was like a day's wages.
So it was costly to maintain that connection
with the word of God
and to have the word of God was costly
as this compromise began to take place.
Yeah, I see those two loaves, you know, I mean two stacks,
six loaves each as true balance.
Perfect true balance, you know,
so something by attacking the word of God
and creating a false balance with the word of God
has much significance
when we come back to the table of showbread,
where there's all these seals are unfolding.
So you think about the book of...
you know, it talks about this,
how much it cost for this bread and if there is a famine,
there is a famine and guess what,
Amos Chapter 8, I'm going to read it.
Amos 8: 11, it says
"Behold, the days comes say the Lord God,
that I will send a famine in the land,
not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water,
but of hearing the words of the Lord.
And they shall wander from sea and sea
and from the north even to the east
they shall run to and fro
to seek the word of the Lord and shall not find it. "
What began to happen in this time period is this.
Taking away of the word of God to where the word of God,
the true word of God becomes scarce.
Now, want you to think about this.
Remember we talked about,
because something very specific happened in 321 A.D.
And that was actually the first Sunday law
that was passed by Constantine.
I remember we talked about how the table of showbread
was changed out every Sabbath.
So we saw that look,
the things that are going to be the focus of the seal,
of the seals are the word of God,
the mount of the congregation and the Sabbath.
So under the white horse, white horse goes forth
with the true word of God and the Sabbath, you know,
that's what set Christians aside in the yoke
so they were actually persecuted under the red horse
because they were keeping the Sabbath.
It was a heavy Sabbath persecution
and because of this, some Christians began to say,
we need to distance ourselves from the Sabbath
because it's bringing persecution
and so under Constantine,
you have this compromise, right?
Now remember this, I want to show this,
let's get back to the third church,
which is what you guys pointed out, okay.
Remember how we talked about how Lucifer wanted to sit
on the sides of the north,
over the mount of the congregation.
Well, this is third seal.
I want you to go back, let's just go back
very quickly to the third church,
Revelation Chapter 2
and let's look at verse 12 and 13,
and let's see 12 and 13.
Could you, one of you read that for us verse 12 and 13.
"And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write,
These things saith he which hath the sharp sword
with two edges, I know thy works,
and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is. "
All right, stop right there.
Even where what?
Satan's seat. Satan's seat.
Third church, third seal,
Sunday law, historically.
So Satan is attempting to take his seat
over the mount of the congregation.
Worship. Wow.
Worship.
Wow.
He is sitting in a sense we can say
he is attempting to sit on the sides of the north
over the mount of the congregation,
and using his authority to change the Sabbath.
Yeah.
It was the priest that changed the table of showbread
every Sabbath.
So now when he sits, saying, yeah,
I have authority to do this.
I'm sitting over the mount of the congregation.
I have authority to change God's law,
which brings us right back to the Book of Daniel,
which we will get into later, but you see this connections
that let you know this is definitely
where we are in history,
the fact that Satan's seat would be mentioned
in connection with the third seal
is absolutely profound
and important for us to understand.
It really is, and you know that history
again informs us today.
When we look back at the history we say,
okay, here's where it applies.
Then we take the principles and we apply to us today.
We don't necessarily see Satan doing the same thing exactly
but we see the same principles taking place.
So Sunday law, famine for the word of God,
the true word of God is scarce.
And there's this famine and people aren't understanding
really what the word of God teaches
because we have these transition taking place
and the word of God
doesn't become the centre any longer.
So how does that apply to us today?
Now, I want to share with you a couple of
bible worship versions
that I think bring this home to us, in our time.
What we see taking place today, by the way,
this is really interesting
because recently I was given a bible to read,
it's called the...
I'm now forgetting the name of it,
but it's the bible that's written in sequence,
everything is in, kind of like the Chronological Bible,
Chronological Bible.
And I was like, this is great, you know.
'Cause when you reading Mathew,
you don't just read Mathew, you have Mathew, Luke, John,
Mathew, Mark, Luke, John.
First chapter, second chapter.
It puts it all in there,
everything's in chronological order.
So I started Genesis, start reading through,
and it was filled with footnotes,
and I was like, oh.
And so I'm reading through, and reading these footnotes,
and I started noticing, wait a minute,
theses footnotes are actually undermining the word of God.
They're actually undermining the word of God.
I'm thinking, why are they doing this?
So I stopped reading the footnotes.
And then I realize as I went through there,
I realize, you know the bible is the best selling book
in the world.
Yes, still, right. Still.
It's not on the New York best sellers list
because it be there,
it be on the topsy all the time.
It's a best seller.
And because of this, it's a really good way
for people to make money who publish books.
However, in order to make money on the bible,
we have to have your own version,
because every version is copyrighted
and you can't make money on someone else's.
So this is one of the reasons
why there are so many new versions of bible.
So the Chronological Bible, it's not that these guys,
these people are really interested in,
its a new way to make some money on the bible.
Here's a new Bible.
And we'll put whatever footnotes in there
we want to put in there.
They can be skeptical footnotes,
they can be undermining God's word,
but this is a Chronological Bible,
'you got to get this bible and read the... '
That's the point. Wow.
Okay now, here's the danger.
Satan is very subtle the way he works.
Another version of bible, another version of bible,
another version of Bible, has to be changed
10 to15 percent from previous version.
You can only change the bible so much
before you're going out of the Greek,
and you are going into whatever.
So let me just, not long ago,
I really got interested
in a version of the bible called The Message.
Yeah.
Oh man, down to earth,
easy to read, easy to understand.
I was preaching, I was telling people,
"You got to get this version, you got to get this version. "
And then you know, I mean, this was something that...
'cause I used to be King James only,
you know, and I kind of balance,
I am hoping balance from that, you know.
But now I am swinging over here, I am going,
"Whoa, whoa, wait a minute. "
And so I said, "I'm going to put this to the litmus test. "
So I decided to go in The Message Bible
to some of the verses that I used to test
it's authenticity.
So I went to, first verse I went to is Revelation 1:10.
Revelation 1:10,
"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. "
So let me read it to you from The Message Bible,
"I was in the Spirit", excuse me,
"It was Sunday
and I was in the Spirit, praying. "
It was Sunday.
We brought out this idea of this transition to Sunday,
scarcity to the word of God.
Today, there is no scarcity of the word of God,
it's every where.
Isn't it?
I mean, you can get the Bibles Galore,
you can get The Chronological Bible,
you can get The Message Bible.
But when you get these bibles, what are you reading,
and is this really what the bible is teaching?
Now I quoted The Message Bible.
By the way, The Message Bible now sits on the heretic shelf.
Everyone should have the heretic shelf.
Student of the Bible,
you need to have a heretic shelf.
I still utilize it, but I've got this caution.
But as I started studying this,
I want to just, I want to find
any and every bible version I can find
and read this verse in there.
So the Expanded Bible, "It's the Lord's day,
probably a reference to the first day of the week,
which is Sunday. "
That's the Expanded Bible.
And then I found another version of bible
which is called the Holman Christian Bible,
"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. "
Footnote: Sunday.
Then I found the English translation of The Voice,
"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day
(the first day of the week)," which is Sunday.
Then I found another five,
no, six translation of the bible,
including the Spanish one,
and I won't embarrass my Spanish teacher
from high school in trying to read that.
Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, first day of the week,
first day of the week, first day of the week.
So what we see in that history of that transformation
that took place by Constantine's law,
we see the same thing taking place today,
a subtle transition, pluralism.
So that when I do a bible study now with someone and they say,
"Oh, the Sabbath, well, I go to church on Sunday."
"Well, Sunday actually isn't in Bible."
"Oh, it's in my Bible.
It's in my Bible, Revelation 1:10."
"Well, Revelation 1:10, you know, The Message Bible,
that's not really based on the Greek."
"Well, there were scholars, the scholars did that.
They know what they are talking about.
I trust the scholars.
If they think that's a good translation,
I got six other translations by the way.
If all these people think,
if all these bible have Sunday in there,
the first day of the week in there,
its good enough for me.
That's where we are today. Yeah.
So that history is coming forth.
Now, notice what it says here, in a context of this says,
"Hurt not the oil and the wine."
I know we're not going to have enough time
to cover the oil and the wine,
but we need to cover this in detail
because this connection here between the oil and wine,
and the importance of the bible,
the word of God and the authority of that word,
and the fact that it should not be alter.
Because when you get to the end of Revelation,
you remember, let's read those bible verses.
Jason, can you read for us
Revelation 22:18?
Sure.
"For I testify unto every man that heareth the words
of the prophecy of this book,
If any man shall add unto these things,
God shall add unto him the plagues
that are written in this book."
And 19.
"And if any man shall take away
from the words of the book of this prophecy,
God shall take away his part out of the book of life,
and out of the holy city, and from the things
which are written in this book."
That is serious. Wow.
That is serious.
God is saying, don't add, don't take away.
You add words to this, you take words away from this,
well, here we have six bible versions,
six modern bible versions and all of those versions
by the way, are post 2000.
All of them were translated after the year 2000.
Interesting.
Okay, so they are all modern, that are changing,
that are adding to the word of God.
They are putting in definitions of the Lord's day
that aren't actually in the text,
they are not in the Greek.
But they are in their now,
and now people are reading bibles
that basically saying,
as never before that Sunday is in the Bible,
it's the Lord's Day.
So we're moving now back toward this compromise
that we saw in those dark ages.
The black horse is still riding.
The black horse is still riding and we're there.
And people, we need to be aware of this,
we really need to be aware of this.
So we're under a minute and we got a close out.
But we want to remind people...
What do we remind people?
If they have any questions,
just send their emails to sss@3abn.org
as a Salvation, and Symbols, and Signs.
Salvations, and symbols, and signs.
Close this out, Yvonne, with the word of prayer,
would you?
Father, we just thank you so much
for this studying lord
and this Revelation of your spirit,
your love for us.
And we just thank you Lord God
for all that you do and for being in our lives.
Continue to bless, guide, and direct us.
We pray in Jesus' name.
Amen. Amen.
Amen. That went very fast.
It did.
We got to hit the oil and wine.
Now, just real quick, before we go though,
the oil and the wine,
oil represents the anointing of the Holy Spirit
and wine represents the blood of Jesus Christ.
We're going to look at some bible versus,
but we really need to emphasize that because this is the key
to escaping the darkness, the compromise.
It's to be annoyed with the Holy Spirit
and not letting men teach us but the God teachers, 1 John,
and then to be depending on the blood of Christ,
because that's also
what the compromise came in with,
with the compromise and the gospel.
Sweet.