This is amazing.
This is amazing.
The only downside about this is,
Pastor Ivor Myers.
But we are so glad that we can get together
and continue our study in the Book of Daniel.
We've gone through some incredible challenges in the last few months.
We know that we left off in Daniel Chapter seven
and that our viewers are eager for us to finish this book.
Daniel eight.
Daniel nine. Daniel ten. Daniel 11.
And Daniel 12.
But we've had a lot of hindrances and we were living in amazing times.
Things are happening in the world today that are unprecedented,
and I think that perhaps we could look at it this way the delay
in getting the rest of this book finished is going to play in God's favor
because the prophecies that we're going to be talking about
are going to be even more present truth now than they could have been
a few months ago.
We have some amazing insights that God is revealing
to us in these last chapters of Daniel.
So we're going to look at that.
We're going to pick up in Daniel chapter eight today.
And we're going to continue through we're going to finish this up.
We're going to make sure we finish this up through Daniel chapter 12.
And I'm glad that we're all here, so to speak.
Right. That's the good news.
And that we're going to be able to  just ask God to guide us
and to look at these verses in these chapters
with the eyes of heaven in the time in which we live.
So we're going to begin with a word of prayer.
Jason, can I ask you to pray for us?
And I'm going to jump
right in to our two hour scripture here in Daniel chapter eight.
All right.
Let's pray there.
Heavenly Father, we thank you so much
for the wonderful opportunity that we have to study your word.
And Lord, we just ask
that you would send your Holy Spirit to lead and guide us into all truth.
Help us to retain what we're studying and please be with the viewers as well
and help them to learn a lot from this too.
In Jesus name, we pray. Hey, man.
All right, let's just start with verse one.
You want it?
Would you be willing to just read us verse one?
Just the first verse.
No more. More than that. Just the first verse.
You're in the third year of the reign of King.
That Belshazzar of vision appeared to me, to me, Daniel,
after the one that appeared to me the first time.
Okay, so just pausing right there so that we can kind of recalibrate.
We left off in Daniel seven.
Daniel seven was a vision that was given to Daniel in the first year of Belshazzar.
So Daniel seven was given in the first year, built a chapter.
Now we have Daniel eight, given in the third year.
Okay, so the first year in the third year.
Now there's something significant about that
that we just want to mention here, and that is, is that this vision
is given to Daniel both visions.
When Babylon is still a power that is in control of the world, built up.
Yaser is the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar.
But in this vision in Chapter eight, Babylon isn't mentioned.
We're going to start with Meet a Persia, then go to Greece and then go to Rome.
But Babylon isn't mentioned, so we need to think about this.
God is actually speaking through Daniel.
So when we read Daniel eight, we think of Daniel eight.
That's after Daniel five That's after Belshazzar
had that vision of the hand that wrote many, many article you for us.
And that's after Babylon fell.
No, actually, it isn't.
It's after in sequence, in the book sequence.
Daniel eight is after, but the vision was actually given before,
which is really interesting because it kind of enlightens us
when we think about Daniel coming in to that
feast and reading that writing and making that announcement.
He'd already had this vision and this vision
had already, in Daniel's mind, sealed Babylon's fate.
He already knew that Babylon wasn't part of the future.
Does that make sense?
He already knew that it was It was really clear to him. Right.
So it's really important for us to see that sometimes
when you read through Daniel, just kind of read through.
And we don't make a connection between the actual timing of some of these visions.
We're going to see the same thing when we get to Daniel.
Chapter nine.
No. Chapter ten.
No. Chapter 910 nine.
Chapter nine. Chapter 11. Yes, Same thing.
It's really important for us to make the connections
as to where they are in the context of experience.
So that's the first point we want to look at.
Now we want to move into the second verse.
Jason, could you read that for us?
Daniel Chapter eight, verse two.
I saw in The Vision, and it so happened this while I was looking
that I was in Shushan, the Citadel, which is in the province of Ilam,
and I saw in the vision that I was by the river.
You lie where you lie.
Eli Yeah. Keep reading for us, okay?
Then I lifted my eyes and saw and there standing beside
the river was a ram, which had two horns.
And the two horns were high, but one was higher than the other.
And the higher one came up.
Last I saw the ram pushing westward,
northward and southward so that no animal could withstand him,
nor was there any that could deliver from his hand.
But he did according to his will and became great.
And as I was considering, suddenly a male goat came from the west
across the surface of the whole Earth without touching the ground.
And the goat had a notable horn between his eyes.
Then he came to the Ram that had two horns,
which I had seen standing beside the river and ran at him with furious power.
And I saw him confronting the ram.
He was moved with rage against him, attacked the ram and broke his two horns.
There was no power in the RAM to withstand him,
but he cast him down to the ground and trampled him.
And there was no one that could deliver the ram from his hand.
Therefore, the male goat grew very great.
But when he became strong, the large horn was broken,
and in place of it, four notable ones came up toward the four winds of heaven
and out of one of them came a little horn, which grew exceedingly
great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious land.
And it grew up to the host of heaven.
And it cast down some of the host and some of the stars to the ground
and trampled them.
He even exalted himself as high as the prince of the host,
and by him, the daily sacrifices were taken away
and the place of his sanctuary was cast down because of transgression
and army was given over to the horn to oppose the daily sacrifices.
And he cast truth down to the ground.
He did all this and prospered.
Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another
holy one said to that certain one who was speaking.
How long will the vision be concerning the daily
sacrifices and the transgression of desolation,
the giving of both the sanctuary and the host to be trampled underfoot?
And he said to me, for 2300 days, then the sanctuary shall be cleansed.
All right, let's stop right there.
So this is basically the vision right here that Daniel
has, the vision of Daniel eight What's going to follow now in versus 15
all the way through the end of the chapter is an understanding of the vision.
The vision is given, and then a man is commanded,
an angel is commanded, the messengers commanded
to give Daniel understanding of the vision because it's a difficult one.
And I really love this because we need help
and God is always willing to give us help.
Daniel was given direct help right after he was was shown this vision,
and we can have the same help from heaven whenever we read the Word of God.
All we have to do is pray
and ask the Holy Spirit to guide our minds,
and God will actually bring us understanding.
And so Daniel asks for this understanding, and immediately
there's a response.
But I want us to go back now and just take a look at this vision
and see what we can glean from it before we go into the interpretation.
First of all, in verse one, he sent it to me, or in the third
year of the reign of King Belshazzar, a vision appeared to me, even unto me.
Daniel after that, which appeared unto me in the first, now at the first.
There's two ways you can interpret this phrase.
After that, it could be after in time,
which is obvious because it's the third year of Belshazzar.
And the other vision
was the first year of Belshazzar, or it could be after in kind,
just like the vision that I saw earlier was very much like the vision
I saw earlier.
And we know this is going to be the case because
even though the earlier vision was for beasts
that were different than the beasts in this vision
and the one before that, that the mechanism had was an image.
We know that this is following the same track of repeat
and in large prophecy, because we're actually told in the interpretation.
Now let's just jump there for a second.
We're actually told who these animals, these first two animals represent.
Jason read for us versus
21 and 20 and 20.
2020 and 21. Okay.
The RAM, what you saw having the two horns,
they are the kings of media and Persia
and the male goat is the kingdom of Greece.
The large horn that is between its eyes is the first king.
Okay, so going back now, you remember in Daniel chapter two,
we had Babylon of Persia, Greece and Rome and Daniel seven.
We had Babylon meet it, Persia, Greece and Rome.
Now we have middle Persia and Greece.
So we're following the same basic track of history.
Babylon is gone because as we mentioned earlier, Daniel was shown the demise
of Babylon, which took place in Daniel Chapter five made of Persia.
Then it's the first came that's mentioned, then Greece.
And then there's this fourth kingdom that's going to follow
that isn't described by name, but is described by characteristic.
And we're going to look at some of those characteristics because
basically in Daniel chapter eight, you have a very little time
given the meat of Persia, kind of to get our footing,
and then Greece gives us more understanding of where we are
and then the rest of the vision is all about that fourth power.
I mean, the whole thing is is dedicated to that fourth power.
And what he does something really interesting that we see here.
EIVOR and I just wanted you to comment on this a little bit in Daniel seven,
we had an attack on the Law of God
in Daniel eight We have an attack on the sanctuary of God.
Do you see that in these verses?
I just think it's significant that we're seeing a two
pronged attack against God in Daniel seven and Daniel eight.
Yeah, and I will add this here.
You know, at the end of this
chapter, we see that Daniel doesn't understand the vision.
And that's very significant because
remember, in Daniel's mind,
you have this
70 year prophecy that's about to come to completion,
right?
Where the children of Israel  have been in captivity.
And God said, you'll be there 70 years and then I'm going to bring you back.
Right. Right.
And you will be restored to your city and there's going to be the temple.
Well, when Daniel is seeing this
vision and remember from Daniel two,
he sees four kingdoms of Babylon meet occurs in Greece, Rome.
He knows that these kingdoms are going to rise and fall in like,
you know, five years. Ten years, right?
There's no way for kingdoms are going to do that here in Daniel eight.
He's seeing these kingdoms of of middle Persia and then Greece
and then something about the sanctuary.
And you can imagine in his mind the sanctuary being cleansed like
so we're talking about after Greece, we're going to be dealing with the sanctuary
like he's thinking the sanctuary is going to be rebuilt pretty soon.
Right? Right. Because the seven years are ending.
Yeah. Yes. And the years are ending. Right.
And so you can understand why he's confused because he's like, wait a minute.
Yeah, Greece, you know, this other kingdom is going to rise.
And then this little horn that rises after that.
And what is going to this is this must be confusing to him.
So, number one, this is significant
because what we're going to see and I'm going to mention this here,
there is something
very specific about the prophecies of Daniel.
If you read all the other prophets in the Old Testament, Ezekiel, Isaiah,
Jeremiah, all the minor prophets, Micah,
Nahum, Hagai,
you will see something very specific with these prophets, right?
What you're going to see is that God was speaking to the Prophet
to give the people a message,
Go on to Israel and say unto them,
Say unto Israel, say unto Israel.
The Book of Daniel doesn't do that.
In fact, in the end of the Book of Daniel, you see God telling Daniel
to seal up the book because it is for the time of the end.
Yeah, yeah.
This is this is a very important distinguishing point because, listen,
a lot of these prophecies in the book of Isaiah and Jeremiah, people
will take those prophecies and apply them to things
that are going to happen in the future when they have already been fulfilled.
They were speaking to the people of that time.
The Book of Daniel
purposely catapults us into events
that are supposed to happen in the future.
And this is one of the reasons why Daniel is so confused,
because he's thinking sanctuary should be rebuilt sometime soon.
Here.
You know, he's thinking should be cleansed
or purified or restored sometime soon here.
But now I'm seen his vision about a sanctuary.
The sanctuary being restored or purified or cleansed
after some time after, like these empires.
He's confused about this. Gotcha.
In fact, he's seeing the sanctuary being cast down
after  the Christian power has come and gone.
It was like, Well, the sanctuary isn't even up yet.
How can it be cast out?
Yeah, how can it be cast that says sanctuaries cast down right now?
Right where in Babylon Sanctuary is destroyed.
So he's looking at this vision and in his mind, he's thinking of the now.
Yeah. Yeah.
This is crucial to understand.
He's thinking of the now, not realizing
that God is showing him
things to come that are beyond his time.
Right.
Really important.
This is where.
Yeah, this is where Daniel nine is going to come in and even amplify
what's happening in Daniel chapter eight.
But I'll jump back and share this as well in Daniel two
In Daniel two we have Babylon
meet a pairs of threes wrong.
And this Roman Empire
divides into ten kingdoms
and these ten kingdoms
has a clay element that comes up among it.
And I think we talked about this in one of our last studies, how
the clay is symbolic of a professed people of God.
Right. You are the potter.
We are the clay.
Here's an element rising up within the Roman Empire
that is a religious power, claiming to have God as its maker.
And yet it is mingling with the iron.
It is mingling with the world in a way that is not appealing to God.
That is not pleasing to God.
And that's why the stone is cut out with our hands, destroys the image,
not on the head,
not on a chest and arms, but on the feet of iron mingled with clay.
Quick object lesson
Believers
should not mingle with worldliness.
Right.
So that's number one.
When we get to Daniel seven, we see the same thing.
But now we have the fourth beast.
This beast with iron teeth
paralleling the legs of iron and Daniel two,
and it has ten horns
and then a little horn.
Now, I want you to notice that in Daniel two,
there's only four kingdoms,
which means the toes of iron
and the clay are really an extension of the fourth Kingdom.
Which is wrong.
So what God is doing is he's using
one symbol, Rome,
to apply to two different powers.
Pagan Rome.
And then this religious power that comes out of Rome.
It's all the fourth kingdom. Right.
In Daniel seven, you have the same thing.
This little horn, which parallels the clay of Daniel.
Two that rises among the ten toes.
You have the little horn rising among the ten horns.
But remember this.
The little horn is on the head of the fourth beast.
Right.
So? So it's really one power.
It's part of the fourth.
It's part of the fourth. Yep. Right.
So when we identify this little horn as rising sometime after Rome,
I'm going somewhere very important with this.
This little horn rises some after the fall of Rome.
Right.
When we get to Daniel eight.
For a lot of people,
this little horn appears to come out of Greece.
It does not come out of Greece.
It comes after Greece.
In fact, the Bible says in the latter end of their kingdom.
In other words, when the Greek kingdom is declining, is
when this little horn is rising. Right.
Right.
The little horn
is now one symbol for
describing two powers.
We know that Rome came after Greece.
But if you look at the description of the middle horn,
it matches the description of the little horn in Daniel seven.
Why do.
Why do we just go through this whole thing?
Because it's this little horn that rises
after the fall of Rome that is desecrating the sanctuary,
which leads us to a very important conclusion.
Whatever the sanctuary is that is being desecrated,
it cannot be the literal temple in Jerusalem.
Because that temple was destroyed.
Freud, in 1780.
It was destroyed in the Roman Empire.
So if the little horn rises after Rome,
whatever sanctuary it is, attacking must be something
that is not yet known or understood to the children of Israel.
Okay. Good point.
Really good point.
Okay, let's get back into our texts
just so that we can kind of summarize a little bit of what you're saying here.
I want to get back into our texts.
We're starting with verse three, where we have the RAM
that is pictured here with two horns.
And the two horns were high,
but one was higher than the other and the higher came up last.
Do you remember this now, as we correlate this with the bear,
the bear was higher on one side.
Yes, the Medes and Persians were connected
and the Persians came up after the Medes and became stronger than the meets.
But they were one power. They they're connected together.
That's been depicted here in this verse, just like it was depicted
in the verse in Daniel seven.
And what's happening in Daniel seven, as  I is bringing out in
Daniel eight is Iris bringing out is as we move through history
there's more information, there's more details.
And that's what what's taking place in Daniel chapter eight.
We're getting more details here
that are going to help us, but it's really important,
as you pointed out, Ivor, that we don't forget the past details
because the new details add to those past details
and give us more understanding of the prophecy.
So we know, for example, as Ivor said, that the little horn
is part of the Roman power.
And so that that power that desecrates the sanctuary
that takes place after Rome falls there, it can't therefore, it
can't be the literal sanctuary in Jerusalem, which was destroyed in A.D. 70.
Okay.
We also in in the context of this see in verse four,
the RAM pushing in all these different directions.
He's pushing westward and northward and southward.
Okay.
So that indicates the direction he's coming from.
He's pushing northward and westward and southward.
So what direction was left out?
So he's coming from the east.
Right.
Know Persians came from east.
Now, if you go down here a little further as he's
considering the horn, another horn comes up.
It says, I was considering.
Behold, a goat came.
Excuse me. Now the horn. A goat came up.
And that wasn't a horn.
That was a ram.
So you got a ram and a goat. First five.
The goat came from the West.
So this is a power from the West.
The other powers, a power from the east.
These directions are really important as you go down a little further.
He destroys meat of Persia.
This is, of course,  Greece and Alexander the Great.
The notable horn is Alexander the Great.
And then it says in verse eight, therefore the he goat wax.
Very great.
He went and when he was strong, the Great Hall was broken.
Alexander conquered the world in a very short time.
And then he died. And as he died, his.
His complete territory was divided eventually into four parts.
And those four parts are depicted here, it says.
And when he was strong, the Great Hall was broken.
And for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven.
So you got four notable ones for the four winds of heaven,
north, south, east and west.
And out of one of them, out of those four directions,
because remember, we've been talking about directions all the way through here.
We've been talking about the East, we've been talking about the South.
We've been talking about the West.
We've talked about the North coming from the west, coming from the east.
So keep it consistent out of one of them.
That is one of those four winds, one of those directions
came forth, a little horn which waxed exceedingly great toward
the south, toward the east,
and toward the pleasant land, which is the west.
So what direction is he coming from if he's going toward the south,
the east and the west? North, he's coming from the north.
So this is the first time in Scripture that we have identified
creation of the King of the North.
yes. The king of the north is first identified in Daniel eight.
That will help us when we get to Daniel 11 because in Daniel 11,
all this directional activity and all of this directional identification
is going to be exempt, amplified in Daniel 11.
It's king of north, King of the South, King
Henry King of South, King of the South.
And people get lost in there.
But if you start right here,
you're going to identify the king of the north as Rome.
Rome is the first time that we see the king of the north identified
in it's in Daniel eight,
because he's coming to the south, he's going to the east, he's
going to the Pleasant Valley, which is west.
So the only direction he can be coming from is the North.
And Alexander's kingdom was was was,
as it says here in verse
eight, it was spread out
toward the four winds of heaven
are the four corners of the earth, the four directions of heaven.
So now we look at Rome in its first stages,
and the very first stage that we have is this pushing toward
these different directions.
Rome continues to conquer the world, including Palestine, including God's
glorious land, the pleasant land it's called here in verse nine.
So Rome lands in Israel, in Judah,
and then it says in verse ten,
It works great even to the host of heaven.
And it cast some of the host of the stars to the ground and stamped upon them.
Now, what direction is this power going in?
Not all answer at once.
Now this power is going after my way.
Okay. How this power is going up? Right.
At first he was horizontal, but now he's going vertical.
Now he's and it's, you know, we're thinking, well, what is against heaven?
Really? Yes, he's going against heaven.
So now this is where we would see a transition from pagan Rome to papal Rome.
This is where that transition takes place.
We've seen that transition in Daniel chapter seven, Right.
We've seen that transition a little bit in Daniel, too, with the
clay and the iron.
But now it's it's going to be emphasized even more amplified, if you will.
He's going toward heaven.
He is casting some of the host and the stars to the ground.
He stamping upon them. That's persecution.
Verse 11, he's magnifying himself to the prince of the host,
taking the daily
way and and casting down the place of his sanctuary.
Now, that can't be the same in Jerusalem, as we've noted, because this is after the
transition from pagan Rome to papal Rome, the sanctuary that he's casting down,
at least in intent and purpose, is God's heavenly sanctuary.
A host is given him against the daily.
We're going to identify what that is in our next session
by reason of transgression.
And it cast the truth to the ground and it practiced and prospered.
So this is identifying the power of papal Rome
as it transitions from pagan Rome in verses nine and ten.
You've got that transition taking place there,
and then you've got a specific attack against the heavenly sanctuary,
the heavenly host, the Prince of the host and the daily, whatever that is.
And all of this is taking place
in the context of Daniel chapter eight.
These are the
these verses are identity for identifying for us in symbolic language
the attack against the sanctuary in heaven.
Daniel Chapter eight.
So we're running out of time right now
where we've come back and we've really got to dissect.
We jumped ahead a little bit.
We're going to go back and we're going to
go through these verses point by point, symbol by symbol, and really identify,
really dissect them, identify what's taking place here.
That sounds good.
Sounds great. Great.
We're all out of time.
You know, time flies.
It does. It is. Time just flies by. Yeah.
So anyway, we're really thankful that  you could join us.
We're looking forward to continue with Daniel chapter eight.
So don't go away. We will be back soon.