THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
GOD’S PEOPLE DELIVERED
The Relationship Between Daniel 11: 45 and 12: 1.
BY Louis F. WERE.

“Thus said the Lord, Stand you in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good
way, and walk therein” (Jeremiah 6:16).
“These are they which follow the Lamb whither so ever He goes” (Revelation 14: 4).
“All need wisdom carefully to search out the mystery of iniquity that figures so largely in the
winding up of this earth’s history”-Testimonies to Ministers, p. 118.
There is nothing so powerful as truth - and often nothing so strange. Daniel Webster.
KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS
IT.
EW
AA
DA
PP
PK

Testimonies, Volume 1.
The Early Writings.
The Acts of the Apostles.
The Desire of Ages.
Patriarchs and Prophets.
Prophets and Kings.

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

“THEY THAT BE WISE”
“And they that be wise [margin, “teachers”] shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and
they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever.
“But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end [“till the
crisis at the end”-Moffatt]: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased,” (Daniel 12: 3, 4).
The obvious connection between these two verses is that by teaching the things revealed in the
book of Daniel, “they that be wise,” or “teachers,” will thus “turn many to righteousness,” and have the joy
in eternity of seeing the fruit of their labors. However, the book of Daniel, in the main, would not be
thoroughly understood until toward “the crisis at the end.” The nearer draws that “crisis,” the more will the
“wise,” the “teachers” of “righteousness” (of which the unchangeable Law of God is the standard, Psalm
119: 172; James 2: 8-12, and about which the controversy revealed in Daniel’s prophecies is being waged)
“run to and fro” in their study of the book of Daniel; in this way their “knowledge” of Daniel and the
Scriptures generally “shall be increased,” and thus they will become more and more efficient in turning
“many to righteousness.” Enlightened and stimulated by their studies of Daniel and other Scriptures, their
devotion to the cause of Christ will prompt them to travel to and fro throughout the earth spreading abroad
the knowledge of His saving Grace and of all the truths of His Holy Word. The amazing inventions of
modern times have been permitted by a wise Providence to enable the teachers of righteousness to quickly
convey the Judgment-hour Message to all the world.
The method to be employed in the understanding of the book of Daniel is that of “a turning to and
fro in the prophecies,, that is, a diligent and earnest search into prophetic truth” – Uriah Smith’s Daniel and
Revelation, p. 312. See also “The Great Controversy,” pp. 356, 361, etc.
In the following pages, by adhering, to this principle of “turning to and fro in the prophecies,” it
has been possible to positively identify the power referred to Dan 11: 40 as “the
king of the north,” and to interpret his activities. brought to view in verses 40-45, in relation to the
deliverance of God’s people mentioned in the very next verse (Daniel 12: 1). By turning first to one
prophecy of Daniel and then to another, and by comparing parallel passages – “comparing spiritual things
with spiritual,” as we are informed is the manner in “which the Holy Spirit teaches” (I Corinthians 2:13;
Isaiah 28:9, 10; etc.) and by comparing those passages again with others found in the Revelation and the
Savior’s second advent sermon, it has been possible to make clear the great, importance to the church of the
inspired declaration that “the king of the north” would “come to his end” at Jerusalem. This prophecy is not
one of secondary importance, but is vital to the people of God. The application of this prophecy presented
in the spirit of Prophecy is vindicated by the following analysis of Daniel’s last prophecy.
-Louis F. Were. Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 5th November, 1949.

2

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

1. UNDERSTANDING DANIEL 11: 45; 12: 1.
“When the Books of Daniel and Revelation are Better Understood” (Testimonies To Ministers,
Page 113).
The identification of the king of the north is one of the most important themes that could possibly
engage the attention of Seventh-day Adventists. As the end of the king of the north is the climax of
Daniel’s last prophecy, it is most important that we should be able to identify this power. When it is
remembered that Daniel’s last prophecy was given as the fitting conclusion to the very important
prophecies which have preceded it, its importance will be seen. All the previous prophecies of Daniel have
their consummation in this last prophecy. This prophecy was revealed to him after he had spent three weeks
in fasting and praying in order to obtain clearer light on the previous prophecies. It is obvious, therefore,
that unless we approach this subject in the light of the prophecies which have preceded it, we shall not
understand aright the climax of them all – “the ending of the king of the north at Jerusalem.
Concerning the interpretation of Daniel’s previous prophecies Seventh-day Adventists are united.,
But the same unity is not maintained concerning the interpretation of Daniel’s last prophecy – the reason
for this is because the concluding portion of Daniel 11 (vs. 36-45) is not interpreted according to the same
principle by which the previous parts are interpreted. When God’s people apply this principle consistently,
the unity manifested concerning the earlier prophecies of Daniel will also exist in regard to this last
prophecy. When this time comes as it surely will – there will be seen among us “a great revival,” that “great
revival” which the Lord’s servant declares will come “when the books of Daniel and Revelation” are
“better understood.” Testimonies to Ministers, p. 113.
“When the books of Daniel and Revelation are better under stood, believers will have an entirely
different religious experience.” Testimonies To Ministers, Page 114. Surely this means more than a greater
knowledge of the dates and historic features involved! Concerning the results to be accrued from a “better”
understanding of the Apocalypse, we read: “One thing will certainly be understood from the study of the
Revelation – that the connection between God and His people is close and decided ... The things revealed to
Daniel were afterward complemented by the revelation made to John on the isle of Patmos. These two
books should be carefully studied.” Testimonies To Ministers, Page 114.
“To John were opened scenes of deep and thrilling interest in the experience of the church. He saw
the position, dangers, conflicts, and final deliverance of the people of God ... Subjects of vast importance
were revealed to him, especially for the last church, that those who should turn from error to truth might be
instructed concerning the perils and conflicts before them.” Great Controversy, Page 341, 342.
From this inspired instruction we gather, that there will come a time “when the books of Daniel
and Revelation” will be “better understood,” and then “will be seen among us a great revival” because a
“better” understanding of these books will reveal the nearness of God to His people, We also learn that the
Revelation is the complement of Daniel, so that a study of the Apocalypse will throw light on the book of
Daniel. As shown later, this fact assists us in our understanding of Daniel 11:45.
In Daniel’s previous prophecies the Lord had shown him the experiences through which the
people of God would. pass. In his three weeks’ fasting and praying, Daniel sought the Lord for further
revelations concerning the “dangers” and the “conflicts” of “the people of God. “His prayer was answered
in the light given him in his last prophecy. See Daniel 10:14. To interpret this prophecy in harmony with
the express purpose for which it was given, requires a “better” understanding of “the books of Daniel and
Revelation” than that which interprets the king of the north as Turkey. A right understanding of Daniel
11:40-45 concerning the ending of the king of the, north at Jerusalem will be found to throw a flood of light
upon other portions of the Scriptures that are vital to the Third Angel’s Message: it will be found to contain
a thrilling message of triumph for the people of God.

2. THE IDENTITY OF THE KING OF THE NORTH.
Both Daniel and John foretold the dangers, conflicts, and final deliverance [Daniel 12:1] of the
people of God” (Great Controversy, Page 341). John described these dangers, conflicts, and final

3

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
deliverance of the people of God” in connection with the Satanic forces of spiritual Babylon (Revelation 13
to 19). Daniel described the same things in connection with the “king of the north.”
Our attention should be arrested by the fact that in the scores of places where the Lord’s servant
refers to Daniel’s prophecy of the deliverance of God’s people, greatly enlarging upon the theme in her
graphic descriptions of that great event, she does not make the slightest reference to the ending of Turkey!
For instance, read chapters 40 and 41 of “Great Controversy” concerning “God’s People Delivered,” and
observe at this deliverance of the people of God is described in connection with the judgments which fall
upon Babylon. In “Early Writings,” pp. 282-285, in the chapter, “The Time of Trouble,” God’s servant
invariably speaks of the deliverance of God’s people in connection with the enforcement of Babylon’s false
Sabbath and the attempt to slay the Lord’s people for their loyalty to the Law of God. Not the slightest
reference is made to Turkey’s doom! Yet in Daniel 11:45; 12:1 the ending of the king of the north is
mentioned in connection with the deliverance of God’s people! The obvious conclusion derived from this
association is that the king of the north is responsible for the “dangers” and “conflicts” of the church, and
that it is his evil work against the church which necessitates the Lord’s intervention to bring “deliverance”
to His people.
As the king of the north does the same work as the Papacy there can be but one conclusion,
namely, that the king of the north refers to the Papacy. Thus we see why John the Revelator and the servant
of the Lord describe “the final, deliverance of the people of God” while describing God’s judgments upon
spiritual Babylon. Daniel, John, and the Spirit of Prophecy are in perfect agreement!
When this truth is seen by God’s people “there will be seen among us a great revival,” for it
requires “a better knowledge of the books of Daniel and Revelation” to understand thoroughly why the king
of the north is the Papacy and to know how he comes to his end at Jerusalem. To understand the prophecies
given to him, Daniel fasted and prayed for three weeks (Daniel 10:2, 3). John “wept much” (Revelation
5:4) because of his intense longing for a true understanding of the revelations given him. When God’s
people engage in fasting and praying and weeping, with intense longing to have “a better knowledge of the
books of Daniel and the Revelation,” they will see that the king of the north could not possibly be Turkey
but that, undoubtedly, it is the Papacy that comes to “his end” became of its persecution of the people of
God.

3. THE PIONEERS OF THE ADVENT MOVEMENT
The godly pioneers of the Advent Movement, from their consecrated study of the Word of God,
came to the conclusion that the power referred to in the closing verses of Daniel 11 was the Papacy. Their
belief they expressed in “A Word to the Little Flock,” p. 9. After quoting Daniel 12: 1, we read: “This last
power that treads the saints is brought to view in Revelation 11-18. His number is 666.”
In the “Signs of the Times” (edited by James White) of July 22, 1880, Elder James White wrote:
“The field of Daniel’s prophecy embraces five universal kingdoms. These are Babylon, Medo-Persia,
Greece and Rome, and the eternal kingdom of God. The ground of these perishable kingdoms, reaching to,
and introducing the immortal kingdom, is covered by four distinct lines of prophecy. These are given in
chapters two, seven, eight, and eleven. The eleventh chapter of Daniel closes with the close of the fourth
monarchy with these words: [Daniel 11:45 and 12:1-3 are then quoted].
“The student of prophecy is thus borne down the stream of time from Babylon in the height of the
glory of that kingdom, past Media and Persia, the kingdom of Greece, and the Roman Empire which comes
to its end, at the second coming of Christ.”
Condemning the view that Turkey was the power referred to in Daniel 11:40-45, James White
wrote an editorial in the “Review and Herald,” November 29, 1877. He said: “Let us take a brief view of
the line of prophecy four times spanned in the book of Daniel. It will be admitted that the same ground is
passed over in chapters two, seven, eight, and eleven, with this exception, that Babylon is left out of
chapters eight and eleven. We first pass down the great image of chapter 2, where Babylon, Persia, Greece,
and Rome are represented by the gold, the silver, the brass, and the iron. All agree that these feet are not
Turkish but Roman. And as, we pass down to the lion, the bear, the leopard, and the beast with ten horns,
representing the same as the great image, again all will agree that it is not Turkey that is cast into the
burning flame, but the Roman beast. So of chapter 8, all agree that the little horn that stood up against the
Prince of princes is not Turkey but Rome. In all these lines thus far Rome is the last form of government

4

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
mentioned.” (Emphasis mine.)
“Now comes the point in the argument upon which very much depends. Does the eleventh chapter
of the prophecy of Daniel cover the ground, measured by chapters two, seven, and eight? If so, then the last
power mentioned in that chapter is Rome.” (Emphasis his.)
In a sermon on Daniel eleven delivered by Uriah Smith at Battle Creek, Michigan, he introduced
the new interpretation bringing Turkey into the prophecy. At that time James White said: “Elder Smith has
given a very fine talk on the eleventh chapter of Daniel, and his interpretation seems plausible, but IF the
legs of iron, and the feet of iron and clay in the second chapter represent Rome, and the nondescript, tenhorned beast, and the little horn of the seventh chapter represent Rome, and IF the little horn which waxed
exceeding great of the eighth chapter represents Rome, the King of the North represents Rome also. These
are four parallel prophecies, brethren, reaching down - to the coming of our Lord.” (Quoted in King of the
North, by M. C. Wilcox, Mountain View, California, 1910, page 44.)
In his paper, “The Pioneers on Daniel Eleven and Armageddon” (presented to the Bible Research
Fellowship), Raymond F. Cottrell says: “From 1844 to 1875 . . . the pioneers of the message were united in
their understanding of the king of the north and Armageddon.” After presenting documentary evidence,
Cottrell further says: “In summary, the battle of Armageddon as understood by the pioneers consisted in the
people of God being attacked by the wicked but delivered by Christ and His angels. There is no hint of
Armageddon being a conflict of nation against nation.” Referring to an editorial by James White in the
Review and Herald, Volume XIX, Number 8, January 21, 1862, p. 61, entitled “Thoughts on the Great
Battle,” Cottrell again summarizes: “The denominational view had not changed since the publication of the
hymn ten years earlier. Armageddon was still a battle ‘between earth and heaven’ rather than one ‘between
nation and nation.’ A little later in the same year an editorial by Elder Smith appeared in the Review and
Herald, Volume XIX, Number 24, May 18, 1862, p. 192, commenting briefly on Daniel 11:45, in which it
is evident that he understood that prophecy in harmony with the contemporary denominational view of
Armageddon. First, he quotes a current news item [regarding the] ‘plan of removing the seat of the Papacy
to Jerusalem.’
“Immediately following the quotation appears the laconic comment, ‘Is not the above item
significant, taken in connection with Daniel 11:45 ?’. That is all! He simply takes it for granted that
everyone will agree with him in recognizing Rome as the power indicated in the last verse of Daniel 11.
The brief, direct, matter-of-fact tone of his comment is the best possible evidence that the leaders of that
time held unanimously to the original denominational position . . .
“By 1877 Uriah Smith had shifted from his original position and substituted Turkey for Rome.
James White [‘in an editorial in the pages of the Review dated November 29, 1877’] advised caution in the
interpretation of unfulfilled prophecy and found Uriah Smith ‘removing the landmarks fully established in
the Advent Movement.’ The article makes it clear that the position making Rome the power of Daniel
11:45 and Revelation 16: 12 had been ‘fully established’ as a ‘landmark’ in the Advent Movement up to
that time.”
In the following pages, the writer demonstrates the accuracy of the interpretation, unanimously
held by the Seventh-day Adventist denomination for “the first third of the century since 1844,” that the
Papacy is referred to in Daniel 11: 45. The position presented by James White is positively Scriptural, and
his protests against the introduction of the new ideas on, Armageddon relating to Turkey and a supposed
military war to fulfil the prophecies of Daniel 11: 45; Revelation 16: 12; etc., are abundantly justified. The
line of reasoning presented by James White in justification of the belief of Seventh-day Adventists, held by
them for so long a time, is faultless, and is supported by all the laws of interpretation revealed within the
Scriptures themselves.
As is well known to Bible students, the number four is employed throughout the Scriptures where
it is designed to emphasize the world-wide scope of the prophecy. In the book of Daniel there are four
worldly “universal” kingdoms brought to view: Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece and Rome. These four
kingdoms are represented as “four great beasts” rising as “the four winds of the heaven strove upon the
great sea.” Four world rulers are specifically named: Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, Darius and Cyrus. Four
great lines of prophecy stretch from the days of the prophet to the end of worldly kingdoms: Daniel 2, 7, 8,
11. If Papal Rome were not mentioned in the closing verses of Daniel 11, that prophecy would not for the
fourth time cover the same course of history already mentioned three times. In the record of the sermon the
Savior delivered respecting the destruction of Jerusalem and pointing to the end of the world (a sermon
based upon the book of Daniel, see Matthew 24: 15, etc.), we are explicitly informed of the names of only
four of His disciples who were then present: “Peter and James and John and Andrew” (Mark 13: 3).

5

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Each of Daniel’s four lines of prophecy ends with world-wide events: In chapter two, the Stone,
representing the establishment of the Savior’s kingdom at His second advent, destroys all the kingdoms of
the world; in chapter 7, the Savior destroys the world-wide power of spiritual Rome; in chapters 8 and 9 the
same fact is repeated, and in chapter 12: 1, 2, it will not be denied, world-wide events are outlined to occur
at the time “At that time when the king of the north comes to, his end shall Michael stand up ... .. there shall
be a time of trouble,” “at that time Thy people shall be delivered”-these are to be worldwide in scope.
Surely logic demands that as each of Daniel’s outlines ends with world-wide events, so the ending of the
king of the north, as well as the other events mentioned to occur when he comes to his end, should also
refer to something worldwide.
Interpreting Daniel 11: 45 to mean the ending of Turkey magnifies a comparatively small national
event to disproportionate significance, and also introduces something not only totally incongruous to all
that is revealed in the terminals of the other prophecies, but also something totally incongruous to the other
world events to transpire at the time when the king of the north comes to his end.
The last prophecy, particularly, was given to declare what would “befall” God’s people 9n the
latter days” (Daniel 10: 14), and surely no revelation concerning the experiences of the church would be
complete without also revealing the work and defeat of their enemies. Thus the king of the north must refer
to that power whose persecution necessitates the “deliverance” of God’s people, and for which persecutions
he will suffer the wrath of the Lord of the church. Would it not indicate a lack of wisdom for God to give a
prophecy, declaring that its purpose is to show what would “befall” the church “in the latter days” and,
pointing to her deliverance, spend so much space in His Word-especially at the climax of the spiritual
conflict-describing the downfall of a small nation totally disconnected with that “deliverance.”
There is nothing in the Word of God to support the belief that Turkey is the power referred to in
Daniel 11: 45, but all Scripture unitedly and most emphatically declares that that power who comes to his
end, as declared in verse 45, is the Papacy-spiritual Babylon. The Pioneers were right! The Seventh-day
Adventist denominational view held unanimously for a third of a century is the correct Scriptural view. It
is surely time that there was a return to the “landmark fully established in the Advent Movement.”

4. MODERN BABYLON COMES TO ITS END
That the phrase “he shall come to his end, and none shall help him” has reference to the overthrow
of modern Babylon is evident when compared with other passages of Scripture which definitely refer to the
doom of Babylon. Concerning the doom of Babylon, the prophet Isaiah wrote: “Mischief shall fall upon
thee; thou shall not be able to put it off. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly
prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee ... None shall save
thee.” Isaiah 47: 1, 11-15. In Isaiah 47 the doom of Babylon is portrayed in unmistakable language, and this
is one of the chapters from which John, in the book of Revelation, quotes in his description of the
overthrow of spiritual Babylon. See verses 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15 of Isaiah 47, and note the marginal - referii6ei’tb Revelation 18. Paul, also, quotes from this chapter (Isaiah 47) when referring to the destruction of
modern Babylon. Three statements in 1 Thessalonians 5: 3 definitely connect with the overthrow of ancient
Babylon:(1)
“Sudden destruction” (Isaiah 47: 9, 11; Jeremiah 51: 8; 50: 44).
(2)
“As travail upon a woman with child” (Jeremiah 50: 43, 44; see also Isaiah 13: 1, 6-8).
(3)
“And they shall not escape” – “Thou shall not be able to put it off ... none shall save thee” (Isaiah
47: 11-15).
Thus Daniel’s statement that modern Babylon “shall come to his end, but none shall help him”
harmonizes with the inspired statements of other Bible writers who declare the doom of Babylon in similar
language.
Throughout the book of Daniel the overthrow of Babylon is described: In chapter two the stone
descends upon the ten toes which stand upon Europe, where Babylon is centered. (See also Revelation
17:12-14) The doom of spiritual Babylon is prefigured in the overthrow of literal Babylon by Cyrus, the
night of Belshazzar’s blasphemous feast. The close of probation for that nation is a type of the close of
probation for spiritual Babylon, for when modern Babylon makes a blasphemous use of the things of God’s

6

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
temple-enforcing the Papal Sabbath in lieu of the Sabbath of God’s Commandment-their probation will end
and no one will be able to help them. The Divine judgments upon modern Babylon, for its evil work against
the Sabbath and for persecuting the saints, is mentioned in Daniel 7, and again in chapter 8:25, where we
read: “But he shall be broken without hand.” See also Daniel 9:27. Thus the judgment of God which falls
upon the king of the north refers, not to some mill a defeat, but to the almighty power of God, against
which no help from man could possibly preserve the persecutors of His people.
A comparison of Daniel 8:25 and Daniel 11:45 reveals that both refer to the Papacy. Daniel 8:25
declares: “He shall also stand up against the Prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hands.” “Yet
under one head-the Papal power-the people will unite to oppose God in the person of His witnesses.” 7
Testimonies, Page 182. This is what is taught in Daniel 11: 44-45: “He shall stand up against the Prince of
princes” – “in the person of His witnesses” – “yet he shall come to his end, and none shall help him ... .. he
shall be broken without hand.”

5. WHY TURKEY IS NOT THE KING OF THE NORTH
The Ottoman Empire, in the past, could not have been the king of the north; the Turkish Republic,
in the present, could not be the king of the north. The facts of Turkish history will not fit the prophetic
mould. Those who still believe that this power is the king of the north, evidently appalled by all that is
implied by the belief that Turkey will yet move its seat of government to Jerusalem, say little or nothing
concerning this feature of their interpretation of Daniel 11: 45. Yet this is the climax of the prophecy.
Because this power pitches “the tabernacles of his palace” “in the glorious holy mountain,” the exclamation
is brought forth “yet he shall come, to his end, and none shall help him.” Though the power mentioned in
the prophecy is so mighty that it actually pitches its tabernacles at Jerusalem, the very heart of strength and
power-yet, despite his great power thus demonstrated, “he shall come to his end”-as will be shown later, by
the irresistible power of God.
Is there anything in the world to-day to indicate that Turkey would be strong enough to fuse
together the great territories which formerly belonged to the king of the north? Is there anything in the
world to-day to suggest, even remotely, that America, Great Britain, the United Nations Organization, or
any other power or nation, desires to see Turkey in possession of Jerusalem? Would the Papacy that reaps a
harvest of cash from its “holy” (?) places desire to see Turkey established there? Have they forgotten the
“Crusades”? Would America, whose foreign policy, today, is so influenced by Vatican pressure, permit
little Turkey to regain possession of Jerusalem? Does Turkey have any plan or thought of going to
Jerusalem? The teaching that Turkey is the king of the north will not meet the specifications of the
prophecy.
The prophecy of Daniel 11:43 says of the king of the north: “The Libyans and the Ethiopians shall
be at his steps.” In Exodus 11:8, margin, the same expression is employed when referring to the Israelites
acting under the government of Moses. See also Judges 4:10; 1 Kings 20:10, margin; 2 Kinks 3:9, margin,
etc. The Ethiopians were never under the government of Turkey; they were never at the steps of Turkey.
Gibbon says, that after the seventh century, “Compassed by the enemies of their religion, the Ethiopians
slept for near a thousand years, forgetful of the world by whom they were forgotten.”
The prophecy also declares (Daniel 11:40): “At the time of the end shall the king of the south push
at him.” In support of the belief that Turkey is the king of the north, it is said that in 1798 “Egypt did
‘push,’ or make a comparatively feeble resistance” against France. When we permit the Bible to be its own
expositor, we learn from the use Daniel has already made of the word “push” that it is employed to describe
a power that is vigorous and successful in its campaign. In Daniel 7: 4 we read: “I saw the ram pushing
westward, and northward, and southward; so that no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any
that could deliver out of his hand.” Egypt’s feeble resistance of the French in 1798 did not fulfil the
prophecy of Daniel 11: 40 and the king of the north that was prophesied to “come against him like a
whirlwind” could not be that of Turkey’s resistance to the French invasion of her territory.
The belief that in 1798 Turkey was “the king of the north” and Egypt “the king of the south”
seems very incongruous, because Egypt was then included in Turkish territory. Writing of Napoleon’s
invasion of Egypt in 1798, H. G. Wells says: “Moreover, Egypt was a part of the Turkish Empire!” ”Outline of History,” Volume 11, page 584. Why should Turkey and territory governed by her vassal be
regarded as two separate powers?

7

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Another incongruity appears when applying the term “the king of the north” or “the king of the
south” to the powers conquering the respective territories. By this principle, when France occupied Egypt it
should have become “the king of the south”-thus there would not be three powers to engage in the so-called
“triangular” war of 1798, in supposed fulfillment of Daniel 11:40!
The belief that Turkey is the king of the north is based upon the teaching that Daniel 11:40
outlines “a triangular war pact.” A close analysis of that verse shows that there are only two powers
brought to view, namely, the king of the north and the king of the south. The pronoun “him” referring
firstly to the king of the north whose activities have been described in the previous verses. The king of the
south who pushes at “him” is referred to in the second “him,” for it is against “him,” the king of the south,
that the king of the north comes. The Septuagint Version reads: “And at the time of the end the king of
Egypt shall push at him, and the king of the north shall be enraged at him, with chariots and many horses
and many ships, and shall enter into the land of Egypt!” The American Translation reads: “At the time of
the end the king of the south shall thrust at him; but the king of the north shall burst upon him like a
whirlwind, with many chariots, and horsemen, and many ships, and shall sweep through many lands like an
overwhelming flood!’
The teaching that Daniel 11:40 describes “a triangular war” is created by interfering with the
actual wording of the Scripture. Verse 36 reads: “And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall
exalt himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak marvelous things against the God of
gods!” These are the verses quoted by Paul in 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4, when describing the Papacy. It is
freely admitted that the Papacy is clearly outlined in verses 31-35 of Daniel 11, and the natural reading of
the Scripture would be in harmony with the application made by Paul of v. 36, namely, that the Papacy is
thus described. To bring in another power-France-to make up the three in a supposed “triangular war”
(though the text (v. 40) only speaks of two), it has been necessary to change the definite article “the king”
to “a king.” But it is perfectly obvious that this forcing of the Scripture to say something different from
what it does say, has been necessary to find support for the wrong application of v. 40. Thus, as it always
happens in the interpretation of Scriptures, one mistake leads to another.
Regarding the “triangular war”: after having misapplied verses 36-39 to refer to France instead of
to the Papacy, could it strictly be said to be “a triangular war” when England was also at war with France
and assisted the Turks against the French? As stated in “Daniel and Revelation,” p. 282: “Sir Sidney Smith
at the same time appeared before St. Jean d’Acre with two English ships, reinforced the Turkish garrison of
that place, and captured, the apparatus for the siege, which Napoleon had sent round by sea from
Alexandria. A Turkish fleet soon appeared in the offing, which, with the Russian and English vessels then
co-operating with them, constituted the ‘many ships’ of the king of the north! (Emphasis mine.) It is not
strictly true that it was “a triangular war!” The truth of God’s Word does not requite weak if not
contradictory evidence for its support.
The prophecy of Daniel 11:40-45, ‘in a most arresting manner, depicts the successful conquests of
an almost irresistible conqueror. After recovering from an attack by the king of the south, the king of the
north embarks upon a campaign that meets with almost overwhelming success. He would attack “like a
whirlwind,” everything would be subordinated to his lust for power-”chariots,” “horsemen” and “many
ships” would be under his control to sweep him forward to success. Like the overflowing of a mighty river,
he would “enter into the-countries, and shall overflow and pass over. He shall enter also into the glorious
land [compare Daniel 8:9; 11:16], and many countries shall be overthrown.” The prophecy proceeds to
outline the vastness of his conquests. Coming from, the north, he would continue his victorious march of
conquests until he reached and conquered nations which, in those days of slow locomotion, were farremoved to the south-Egypt, Libya and Ethiopia.
These mighty conquests were to be subsequent to an attack made upon him “at the time of the
end.” Instead of the history of Turkey fitting these prophetic specifications, her history is the very reverse.
Turkey had been in Palestine for centuries and her conquests were prior to “the time of the end.”
The Turkish Empire attained the highest pinnacle of its glory during the 16th century. Then, it was
young and vigorous, and at the height of its power. But the great empire, which had been built up by
warrior Sultans, soon began to decay under the ruler ship of their sensuous successors. Early in the 17th
century the empire seemed almost at the point of dissolution. Towards the close of the seventeenth century
European powers, including the Pope, allied themselves in a general coalition against the Turkish Empire.
Having been weakened by constant war with these European powers and Russia, the Ottomans were unable
to muster sufficient strength, and acting upon the advice of England, the Turkish Sultan agreed to sign the
peace of Karlowitz in January, 1699. Since that treaty was signed the Turkish Empire has suffered

8

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
continuously from decay, and ‘has been subjected to the most humiliating and ignominious treatment at the
hands of European powers.
The prophecy (Daniel 11: 40-45) calls for feats of warlike strength which Turkey did not
accomplish at any time (at least, as concerning Ethiopia), and which could never have been accomplished
in the nineteenth century when the Turk was universally known as “the sick man of the Past.” And when
empire was only held together because the European powers were too jealous of each other to permit any
one of them to destroy the decaying empire of the Sultan. When “the time of the end” commenced, Turkey
was decaying rapidly. Instead of meeting the specifications of the prophecy by being robust, strong and
vigorous, adding conquests to conquests until able to “go forth with great fury to destroy, and utterly to
make away many” Turkey, since the commencement of “the time of the end,” has continued to be “the sick
man of the East.”
When interpreted militarily, the prophecy declares that the king of the north, subsequent to an
attack from the king of the south, would “enter also into the glorious land.” But Turkey had conquered
Palestine in the 16th century and was still in possession of it in 1798. This further illustrates the utter
misapplication of the prophecy to Turkey. Instead of Turkey establishing her government at Jerusalem she
lost the whole of Palestine in the first World War. It was formerly quite generally believed that some day,
probably as a result of Russian aggression, the Turk would be driven out of Europe, from whence he would
flee to Jerusalem. But the flight of Turkey in 1917 was not South to Jerusalem, but North from it!
Daniel 11: 41 declares that “Edom shall escape out of his hand.” In fulfillment of prophecy (such
as Obadiah 18, etc.), the Edomites as a separate people have not existed for over a thousand years-how,
then, could a non-existent people escape out of the hands of Turkey? How the Edomites escape out of the
hands of the Papacy will be shown later.
These historical facts show that the prophecy cannot be interpreted aright in relation to Turkey.
These and other incongruities do not appear when the prophecy is interpreted in harmony with New
Testament teaching.

6. THE APPLICATION OF AN IMPORTANT PRINCIPLE
The track of time is strewn with the wreckage of false interpretations of prophecy. At one time,
because they appeared superficially based upon some Scripture, many of them were widely accepted. From
them, Bible expositors should learn the important lesson: “Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the
Scripture is of any private interpretation” (2 Peter 1: 20). This means that the Scriptures must expound
themselves. No teaching is to be accepted that is a human deduction from a passage of Scripture. No
interpretation is to be derived from isolating the passage concerned from all that the Word of God has given
elsewhere. The Westminster Confession declares: “The infallible rule of interpretation of Scripture is the
Scripture itself ... It must be searched and known from other places that speak more clearly.”
The Lord’s counsel to His people is: “Investigate, compare Scripture with Scripture, sink the shaft
of truth down deep into the mine of God’s Word.” “We must make the Bible its own expositor.”
Testimonies To Ministers, Page 476, 106. “Precept must be upon precept; line upon line; here a little, and
there a little” (Isaiah 28: 9, 10). “Words which the Holy Ghost teaches. Comparing spiritual things with
spiritual” (1 Corinthians 2: 13). Only in this way can man be sure that his teachings are from the Lord, and
that he thus has “the testimony of Jesus.”
When this simple but effective test is applied to the belief that Turkey is the king of the north, it
fails completely, for there are no other passages in the book of Daniel which make even the slightest
reference to Turkey. There are no other passages in any other part of the Bible applying the words in
Daniel’s last prophecy to Turkey. Thus standing alone, that interpretation is shown to be a “private
interpretation.” However, by comparing Scripture with Scripture we see that Paul, when describing the
Papacy in 2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 4, quotes from Daniel 11: 36-38, so that the power referred to must be the
Papacy. Again, when applying this test within the book of Daniel itself, the belief that the Papacy is the
power referred to is supported by the fact that the Papacy looms large in Daniel’s previous prophecies, and
also that they, too, end with the destruction of Rome as the enemy of God and haven’s people.
As shown elsewhere, the destruction of the king of the north is described in similar terms to that
describing the destruction of spiritual Babylon.

9

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

7. THE PRINCIPLE OF PARALLEL PASSAGES
A COMPARISON OF THE ENDINGS OF DANIEL’S PROPHECIES SHOWING
THAT THEY ALL END WITH THE DOOM OF BABYLON.
Daniel 2: 33, 34, 43-45. The stone (“cut out of the mountains without hands”), representing the
second coming of Christ, falls upon the ten toes of the Babylonian image. Those ten toes represent the
nations of Europe under the leadership of the Papacy. See Daniel 7:7, 8, 20, 24; Revelation 17:12-14.
Daniel 7:11, 26. The Roman beast is destroyed at the second advent. “The beast was slain.” “To consume
and to destroy it unto the end.” Daniel 8: 25. The Roman desolator “shall be broken without hand”-that is,
without any human help-none shall help him. Daniel 9: 27, margin. “That determined shall be poured upon
the desolator.” Daniel 11: 45. “Yet he shall come to his end, and none shall help him.”
How utterly incongruous it would be for Daniel to give a series of prophecies ending in the
destruction of the forces of Babylon that have opposed the work and people of God, to end up his last, the
climax of them all, describing the end of a comparatively small nation having no direct relationship with
the great conflict which he has portrayed in progress down through the centuries until the second advent!
But how fitting for him to climax all that he has written by giving a vivid presentation of the final phases of
the spiritual conflict, which ends in the utter destruction of the enemies of God and of His people. Such a
presentation harmonizes with what other Bible writers have written-see 2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 8; Revelation
16: 12-16; 17: 14; chap. 18; 19: 11-21.
A, COMPARISON OF DANIEL’S LAST TWO PROPHECIES SHOWING THAT HIS LAST
PROPHECY IS AN EXPLANATION OF THE FORMER.
The following parallels will show at a glance that Daniel’s last prophecy (10 to 12) was given as
an enlargement and explanation of his previous prophecy (8 and 9). In both these prophecies the same
historical features are considered: MedoPersia; Greece and its break up; Rome’s invasion of “the pleasant,”
or “glorious land”; Papal Rome’s war against the Lord’s sanctuary and His people, and both end with the
doom of the Papacy. Daniel 9: 1 and Daniel 11: 1 both refer to “the first year of Darius,” in 538 BC Darius,
however, was dead when Daniel had this dream; Cyrus then being the sole monarch of the kingdom (Daniel
10: 1).
THE VISION OF DANIEL 8.
v. 3, 20 – “KINGS OF MEDIA AND PERSIA”
v. 5, 21 – “GRECIA”
v. 8 - “Strong”
v. 8 - “waxed very greatv. 8 - “great horn was broken”
v. 8 - “toward the four winds of heaven”

THE VISION OF DANIEL 10-12
v. 2 – “KINGS IN PERSIA”
V. 2, 3 – “GREECE”
v. 3 – “A mighty king”
v. 3 – “rule with great dominion”
v. 4 - “the kingdom shall he broken”
v. 4 – “Toward the four winds of heaven”
v. 5-13-Additional features given concerning the
break up of Greece: conflicts of the kings of north
and south.

v. 9-ROME:
A little horn arises “out of
one of them”-the territory
of the king of the north
v. 9 – “waxed exceeding great”
v. 9 – “toward the pleasant or glorious land”
V. 10 – “Stamped upon” the Jews

v. 16-ROME
v. 15 - came against “the king of the
north.” Syria conquered and
added to the Roman Empire, BC 65.
v. 16 – “None shall stand before him”
v. 16 – “shall stand in the glorious land”
v. 14-”The robbers or breakers of thy people” (see
also Daniel 12: 7, R.V.).
v. 22-”The Prince of the Covenant” to be “broken”

v. 11 – “against the Prince of the host” (margin)

10

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

v. 16-30-Additional features given concerning pagan
Rome.
v. 11 – “By him the daily was taken
v. 11 - God’s “sanctuary was cast down.”
v. l2 – “Cast down the truth”
v. 12 – “practiced and prospered”
v. 13 – “the transgression of desolation”
v. 13 – “Both the sanctuary and the
host to be trodden under foot”

v. 31 – “Shall take away the daily” away”
v. 31 – “shall pollute the sanctuary”
v. 31-35-Persecuted those who stood for truth
v. 36-”shall prosper”
v. 31-”the abomination that makes desolate”
v. 31-35; Revelation 11: 2-”The holy city
[“the true church,” Great Controversy, Page 266]
shall they tread under foot forty and two months”
v. 13 – “How long?”
12:6 – “How long?”
V. 14 – “Unto 2,300 days”
12: 7, 11, 12 – “At the end of the days”
1260, 1290, 1335. Details given
when Papal supremacy would begin and end.
v. l7 – “The time of the end”
11:35, 40; 12: 4, 9 – “The time of the end.”
v. 19 – “the last end of the indignation.”
11:36 – “till the indignation be accomplished.”
v. 19 – “at the time appointed the end shall be.”
11:27, 35 – “the end shall be at the time appointed.”
v. 23 – “when the transgressors are come to the full” 12:10 – “the wicked shall do wickedly”
v. 24 – “his power shall be mighty”
11:31-35-Destroyed God’s people in Dark Ages;
when power restored in last days he will amass forces
to slay the saints (vs. 40-45).
v. 24 – “he shall destroy wonderfully, “destroy
11:31-35-killed millions of God’s people in Dark the
mighty and the holy people.”
Ages; see also v. 44.
v. 25 – “shall cause craft to prosper”
11:32 – “shall corrupt by flatteries”
v. 25 – “he shall magnify himself”
11:36 – “the king [of the north] shall magnify
himself”
v. 25 – “he shall stand up against the
11:34 – “against the God of gods” Prince of princes”
v. 25 – “but he shall be broken without hand.”
11:45 – “yet he shall come to his end, and none shall
help him”
v. 26 – “THE VISION”
v. 26 – “is true”
v. 26 – “shut thou up the vision”
v. 26 – “it shall be for many days,

10:1-THE VISION: “a thing was revealed”
10:l – “the thing was true”
12: 4, 9 – “shut up the words”
10: 14 – “for yet the vision is for many days”

v. 27 – UNDERSTANDING THE VISION
v. 27 – “none understood it.”

v. 10:1 – UNDERSTANDING THE VISION
10:1 - Daniel “understood the thing, and had
understanding of the vision”

Daniel’s introduction to his last prophecy (10: 1) shows that, with this prophecy, the things he did
not understand regarding the previous vision were made clear to him: he then understood the thing, and had
understanding of the vision. Had the Lord mentioned other matters not included in his previous vision
(details concerning the French Revolution and Turkey) He would have added more problems for Daniel to
solve. However, in Daniel’s last vision only that is mentioned which enlarges upon the powers brought to
view in his previous prophecies.
Notice particularly how both these prophecies end:
Daniel 8:24 – “He shall also stand up
against the Prince of princes BUT

Daniel 11:45 – “He shall plant the tabernacle
of his palace” outside Jerusalem YET

Daniel 8:25 – “He shall, be broken
without hand”

Daniel 11:45 – “He shall come to his end,
and none shall help him.”

11

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

“Without hand means with out human aid, see Daniel 2:45; 2 Corinthians 5:1; etc. Therefore “none shall
help him.”

8. THE PAPACY FULFILS DANIEL 11:36-40
Expressions employed concerning the king of the north, when compared with other Scriptures which are
known to refer to the Papacy, show he is the Papacy
IN DANIEL’S LAST PROPHECY- OTHER SCRIPTURES11:36 – “The king [of the north]”
11:36 – “exalt himself”
11:36 – “The king shall magnify himself
above every god!”
11:36 – “Shall speak marvelous things
against the God of gods.”

11:36 – “Shall prosper.”
11:36 – “Shall prosper till the indignation
be accomplished”
Amer. Trans-”He shall prosper till
the time of wrath is ended.”

11:37 – “Neither shall he regard the god of

The Papacy
2 Thessalonians 2:4 – “Exalts himself.” See
also Isaiah 14:13; Daniel 11:14; Great Controversy,
Page 50,
Daniel 8:25 – “He shall magnify himself in his heart”
Daniel 8:11 – “He magnified himself even to the
Prince of the host!”
Daniel 7: 25 – “Shall speak great words against the
Most High”
Revelation 13:5 – “And there was given unto him a
mouth speaking great things and blasphemies!” See
also Daniel 7: 9, 11, 20.
Daniel 8:12 – “It practiced and prospered”
Daniel 8:24 – “And shall prosper and practice”
Daniel 7:25 – “Shall think to change times, and laws”
Revelation 14: 9, 10 – “If any man worship
the beast . . . the wrath of God. His indignation!” See
also Isaiah 13: 5; Jeremiah 50: 25.
Daniel 7:11 – “I beheld even till the
beast was slain, and his body destroyed”
Great Controversy, Page 579-”Paul states plainly that
the man of sin will continue until the Second
Advent.”
2 Thessalonians 2:4 – “Who opposes and exalts
himself above all that is called God!” See Revelation
17:13,14.

His fathers.”
11:37 – “Nor the desire of women”
11:37 – “Nor regard any god: for he shall
magnify himself above all”

1 Timothy 4:1-3 – “Shall depart from the faith . . .
forbidding to marry”
2 Thessalonians 2: 4-”Who opposes and exalts
himself above all that is called. God, or that is
worshipped!”

The translators were correct in placing this verse in the margin of Daniel 11:37. By thinking to change
God’s Law, the Papacy has not regarded God’s desires.
11:33 – “But in his estate shall he honor
the God of forces”

12

Daniel 8:24 – “And his power shall be
mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall
destroy wonderfully”

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

Daniel 11:31 – “And. arms shall stand on his part”
Revelation 18:24 – “And in her was found the blood
of prophets, and of the saints, and of all that were
slain upon the earth!”
Lord Acton, R.C. historian, says: “The Papacy
contrived murder and massacre on the largest and
also on the most cruel and inhuman scale. They were
not only wholesale assassins, but they also made
assassination a law of the Christian church and a
condition of salvation!”
The Papacy allies itself with strong governments and
dictators. It believes in force; always seeks the arm of
the State. Great wars have been produced by its
intrigue.
11:38 – “And. a god whom his fathers knew
not shall he honor with gold, and silver and
with precious things, and things desired,”
margin. See also Isaiah 44:9.

Revelation 17:4 – “And the woman was arrayed
in purple and scarlet color, and decked with gold
color, and decked with gold and precious stones
and pearls.” See also Revelation 18: 12-19.

11:39 – “Thus shall he do within the most
strong holds with a strange god, whom he
of shall acknowledge and increase with glory!”

They worship a wafer god-a biscuit – a god such as
earlier Christians “knew not!” Also the veneration
Mary. These gods they honor with millions of pounds
worth of jewelry. Costly shrines have been multiplied
in every part of the world.
Millions of Rome’s devotees are held
in bondage by these idols and images.

11:39 – “And he shall cause them to
rule over many.”

Revelation 13:3, 8 – “All the world wondered after
the beast!”
Revelation 13:8 “All that dwell upon the earth shall
worship him.”
11:39 – “Shall divide the land for gain.”

This prophecy concerns the world field: claiming to
exercise the vicar ship of Jesus Christ over the world,
the Papacy believes that countries are subject to its
disposal. The Papacy, alone, among all the powers of
earth, has claimed the right to divide the world
among nations. Observe the following facts:-

The Normans went over to Ireland in the reign of Henry II. It was Pope Adrian IV who gave
Henry permission to possess the land. That permission is contained in the now famous papal Bull,
“Laudabiliter.” In that Bull the Pope addresses Henry II in the familiar words, “My well-beloved son in
Christ.” The Bull contains the following conclusive proof of the accuracy of the prophecy that the Papacy
would, “divide the land for gain”:
“You have expressed to us your desire to enter the island of Ireland in order to subject its people to
law, and to root out from them the weeds of vice, and your willingness to pay an annual tribute to the
blessed Peter of one penny from every house. We, therefore, meeting your pious and laudable desire with
due favor and according a gracious assent to your petition, do hereby declare our will and pleasure, you
shall enter that island.”
Pope Alexander III, who held office in Rome in 1172, at the actual date of the invasion of Ireland
by Henry II, solemnly ratified this Bull of his predecessor, Pope Adrian IV, and actually wrote to Henry

13

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
expressing his confidence that it was the King’s desire to “extend the privileges of the church,” and “to
establish her jurisdiction where at present she has none.” The extension of “the privileges of the church”
and the establishment of “her jurisdiction” results in the increase of her enormous wealth.
The presumptive power of the Papacy to “divide the land” to its own advantage was brought to
view in connection with the discoveries of the new world by Columbus. In his book, “The Prophetic Faith
of Our Fathers,” volume II, LeRoy E. Froom says:
“The popes had given Portugal a monopoly on the sea route to India by way of Good Hope. Spain
and Portugal, rival sea powers, had found it impossible to traffic with the Far East without violating the
papal mandate-until this westward route was proposed, and against which there was no papal edict,” pp.
165, 166. This writer continues: “Pope Divides Globe Between Spain and Portugal. The Spanish and
Portuguese discoveries offered a wide field for papal extension. However, soon after Christopher Columbus
discovered the New World, a hot dispute arose between Spain and Portugal . . . Ferdinand and Isabella at
once dispatched an embassy to Alexander VI for. the purpose of ensuring their rights to the new territories,
on the principle that Martin V had given to the king of Portugal possession of all lands he might discover
between Cape Bojador and the East Indies. In two bulls, of May 4 and 5, 1493, Alexander VI presumed to
divide the Western world between Portugal and Spain by a line one hundred leagues west of the Azores,
north and south. The possession of the lands discovered, and to be discovered, was assigned to the two
countries to be held in perpetuity ... Thus half the globe was divided between Spain and Portugal.
“As Peter’s successor, the pope claimed the right to give away the Western continent, a gift that
involved an unending right of tenure,” pp. 168, 169.
“For gain,” or “for a price,” margin. Through its false teachings, the Papacy acquires great wealth:
“for a price” it can bring forgiveness and comfort to the living; “for a price” it can help the dead who are
supposed to be in purgatory. “For a price” it will sprinkle water on infants; “for a price” according to their
ability to pay-Roman Catholics can have a “high” or an ordinary nuptial mass. “For a price” the holy (?)
places and things in Jerusalem and Rome can be seen. Bishops, archbishops, etc., are appointed to certain
territories in the world and through them the Papacy derives considerable wealth. The Revelator, as well as
Daniel, draws attention to this trafficking in connection with the things of salvation-see Revelation 17: 4;
18: 3, 11-19. The Papacy “for a price” has supported dictators in their covetous ambitions for power.
Today, they are bargaining with any force that will operate in any country to bring those countries under
their control. “For a price” they lend their aid to ambitious men who desire to rise to power in their
respective countries.
By comparing Daniel 11:37, 38 and 1 Timothy 4:1-3; 2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 4; Revelation 16: 13,
14; etc., we know that Daniel’s prophecy (v. 38, 39) points to the superstitious belief that certain buildings
and various countries can be dedicated (Australia has just been dedicated to Mary) to patron and protecting
saints as tutelary deities.
Commenting upon Daniel’s prophecy and applying it to the Papacy, Matthew Henry’s Bible
states: “His flatterers call him our Lord god the pope and honors the god of forces, the god Mahuzzim, or
strongholds, saints and angels, whom his followers take for their protectors, as the heathen did of old their
demons. These they make presidents of several countries, etc. These they honor with vast treasures
dedicated to them.”
Applying these verses to the papacy, Dr. Thomas says: “He was the god of a new system of
idolatry, whose idols were the images of Mahuzzim, or ‘the ghosts’ of pretended saints and martyrs. Now,
to honor a god of guardians with such things, is to enrich the institutions dedicated to the guardian saints.
The churches, chapels, and cathedrals are the strongholds, and houses of merchandise, dedicated by the
prospering craft to guardian-saints and angels. There are the images and pictures of the saints. They are the
saints’ houses in which are deposited their shrines; silver, gold, and ivory crucifixes. They are truly Bazaars
of spiritual merchandise. But then, bazaars of priestly wares are distinguished from places of honorable
trade, by being dedicated to Mahuzzim. This is a remarkable feature in the prophecy, which finds its
counterpart in the dedication of the churches to guardian saints and angels. St. Sophia at Constantinople, St.
Peter’s at Rome, Our Lady’s at Paris, St. Paul’s at London, and innumerable other bazaars, dedicated to all
conceivable kinds of saints, and, lest any should be forgotten, to All Saints, and even to All Souls are
examples in point”-Elpis Israel, pages 365-369.
In his book, “King of the North,” pp. 27, 29, M. C. Wilcox says: “The whole earth has been
divided. Whole countries have been dedicated to patron and protecting saints as tutelary deities. The
country has been divided up, and cities have been consecrated to different saints as witness in our land-San
Francisco, St. Louis, St. Paul, St. Augustine, St. Joseph. And the earth, its countries, its cities, have not only

14

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
been parceled out to the saints but to clericals of various ranks, the representatives of the Papacy and
always and ever to the gain of the Papacy.”
The translators believed, that Daniel 11: 36-40 applied to the Papacy for they placed 2
Thessalonians 2:4 in the margin. Most commentators Bengel, Olshausen, Grotius, Bishop Newton, etc.have agreed that Daniel 11:36 refers to Paul’s “man of sin.” “Compare,” says Alford on 2 Thessalonians
2:4, “the close parallel in Daniel 11: 36, 37.”
“This characteristic of impious exaltation is in such striking parallelism with that described by
Daniel to the king that shall do according to his will (chap. 11:36), that we can scarcely doubt that the
ancient interpreters were right in referring both to the same person-Antichrist” - Ellicott.
After quoting Daniel 11: 36, Bishop Newton says: “From this place, as Jerome asserts, the Jews as
well as the Christians of his time understood all to be spoken of Antichrist. It is a strong argument in favor
of the Jewish and Christian interpretation, that St. Paul appears to have understood this passage much in the
same manner, because he applies the same expression (2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 4) to ‘the Man of Sin, the Son
of Perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped. So that he
as God, sits in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God.’ The thread of the prophecy will also
conduct us to the same conclusion.” Bishop Newton’s Dissertation, Volume 2, page 154.
As did so many Protestant interpreters, William Miller believed these verses described the Papacy.
After quoting verse 36 Miller says: “The king here spoken of is the same as Daniel’s little horn, which
came up among the ten horns. It is the same that blasphemed the God of heaven. It is mystical Babylon
(Isaiah 14: 2-15; Revelation 13: 5, 6). The same Paul has described in his epistle, 2 Thessalonians 2:1-9William Miller in Evidence from Scripture and Prophecy, pages 97, 98. After quoting verse 37 Miller
continues: “In this passage we have a plain description of the Papacy must convince every one that the
description given must apply to the church of Rome, or the Pope, who claims to exercise this great
authority by his crazy title to St. Peter’s chair.” Id, page 98.
BY interpreting Daniel 11:36-40 in connection with the French Revolution, and vs. 40-45 to
Turkey, one has to go contrary to Paul’s inspired testimony, and to be heedless of the application made by a
great number of God-fearing writers over a long period of time. And where does this interpretation lead?
Away from the clear-cut pathway marked by prophecy as it outlines the great controversy between Christ
and Satan, and on to a comparatively small track leading into a maze of human speculation. Those who are
guided by the Spirit of Prophecy will observe that the Lord’s servant gave no sanction to this teaching.
“When the books of Daniel and Revelation are better understood” these misinterpretations in connection
with military wars of the vital parts of the prophecies will be applied (as they should be) to the controversy
between Christ and Satan. Then, God’s people will see from these parts of the prophecies, particularly,
“that the connection between God and His people is close and decided” (Testimonies To Ministers, Page
114). This knowledge, applied to the daily life, will bring about “a great revival” (Testimonies To
Ministers, Page 113).
The Lord’s servant, describing the rise of the Papacy, says: “This compromise between paganism
and Christianity resulted in the development of the ‘man of sin’ foretold in prophecy as opposing and
exalting himself above God. That gigantic system of false religion is a masterpiece of Satan’s power-a
monument of his efforts to seat himself upon the throne to rule the earth according to his will Satan worked
according to his will” (Great Controversy, Page 50, 51).
It will be observed that the Lord’s servant combines the prophecies of Daniel and Paul regarding
“the king” who would “do according to his will” and “shall exalt himself.” In harmony with Paul’s
application of Daniel’s prophecy, God’s servant, also, applies it to the Papacy.
In contrast to this positive testimony that Daniel 11: 36, 37 applies to the Papacy, the Spirit of
Prophecy is entirely silent on the application of those verses to the French Revolution. In “The Great
Controversy,” the Lord’s servant devoted the whole of chapter 15-pages 265-288-to the French Revolution,
commenting at length upon Revelation 11, and referring to passages from the Old Testament. Surely the
Spirit of Prophecy would have referred to Daniel 11:36-40 if those verses dealt with the French Revolution!
The French Revolution is mentioned in Revelation 11 to explain how the Papacy, described in Revelation
11: 1-3 as attacking God’s “temple” and “holy city” and His “two witnesses” during the 1260 years of its
supremacy, lost its power by the French people heading the revolt against the church of Rome.
The book of Revelation was given as the complement and supplement of the book of Daniel-what
Daniel mentions the Revelator enlarges upon. Daniel has intimated concerning the spiritual temple. The
first four chapters of Revelation explain concerning God’s spiritual temple in which the seven candlesticks
are burning (see Revelation 1:20; 2:1, etc.). Daniel briefly touches upon the break up of the Roman Empire

15

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
(Daniel 11: 30), the Revelator, in the seven trumpets (Revelation 8 and 9) enlarges more fully upon the
details omitted in Daniel. In Daniel 7, the Judgment is mentioned; in the seven seals (Revelation 5 to 7)
including the “seal of God”-details are given regarding the Judgment and the Judgment message (compare
Daniel 7:10 and Revelation 5:11; etc.). Daniel 11:40 does point out the time when “the king of the south,”
“Egypt,” pushed “at him,” the Papacy. In Revelation 11, where is described the Papal attack upon God’s
“temple” and “holy city,” it also mentions how “the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and
Egypt” (Revelation 11: 8) the atheistic, immoral French Revolution-was the cause of the Papacy losing its
political power to persecute the saints. If Daniel 11:36-40 referred to the French Revolution, Daniel’s
introduction of the subject would be larger than the Revelator’s enlargement of it-which would be contrary
to the principle of enlargement shown in regard to the other things introduced by Daniel and enlarged upon
by John-a principle which is maintained, also, throughout the prophecies of both Daniel and the Revelation
themselves. Their prophecies are so constructed that the succeeding prophecies enlarge upon the essential
features mentioned in previous prophecies.
Daniel 11:40 does briefly introduce the French Revolution, but it is enlarged upon in Revelation
11. “The king of the south,” who pushed at the Papacy (“him” – “the king of the north”), is interpreted here
as those who revolted against the authority of the Papal church at the ending of the time allotted for it to
“tread under foot” “the holy city” (see Revelation 11: 2, 3).

9. THE TERRITORY OF THE KING OF THE NORTH
The interpretation of Daniel 11: 40-45 does not depend upon ascertaining the precise boundaries
of Seleueus Nicator, the founder of the Selucidae, or of his successors. The Lord would not design that the
true interpretation of this most important prophecy depend only upon the writings of historians. The student
of prophecy is far from despising history or geography, for both are useful in the understanding of the
prophetic word. But would not the Lord provide in His own inspired Word whatever was necessary for an
understanding of this great prophecy? Later, we will point out from God’s Word the territory occupied by
the king of the north. Men will not be judged by what historians have written, but by the words the Lord
has spoken-see John 12: 48; Deuteronomy 18: 18-20; Matthew 4: 4.
The endeavor to locate the exact boundaries of the king of the north has occasioned a lot of
controversy among prophetic expositors. But all this is unnecessary. However, for a moment, let us
consider that the territory of Seleucus Nicator did extend from the Indus to Macedonia, as some have
maintained in connection with their belief that Turkey, today, is the modern king of the north. That vast
territory is now held by a number of nations. The European portion of Alexander’s empire is now divided
among Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, etc. If, through historical uncertainties, it is considered that the
government of Seleucus did not extend beyond Asia Minor, we are still faced with the problem that this
territory is now held by a number of nations: Persia, Iraq, Trans Jordan, Syria, and the Armenian section of
the Russian Soviet Republics. Why should the present Turkish Republic be selected from among these
nations as the king of the north? For Turkey to fuse together these separate nations would require that they
be submerged by Turkey, but their present independence indicates that they would greatly resent any such
attempt by Turkey-if she had such a plan-of overcoming their nationalism. Yet surely, if this prophecy be
interpreted militarily in reference to Turkey’s future exploits and the setting up of his government in
Jerusalem, some such military feat must be accomplished. We are living in a time of extreme nationalism.
Even the mighty British Empire has felt obliged to withdraw from countries because of present-day
tendencies. If holding the territory of the king of the north determined who is the king of the north, then
well might one ask to-day: “Who is the king of the north?” Is it a matter of taking one’s choice among a
number of nations holding a portion of the northern part of Alexander’s empire?
Will Turkey, however, be able to accomplish the tremendous feat of fusing together the broken
fragments of the territory which Seleucus either held or is supposed to have held? And then, would Israeli,
helped by wealthy Jews in many lands (and many Christians also think that the Jews should inhabit
Palestine to fulfil Bible prophecy), be likely to relinquish her firm hold on national status in order to permit
the Turks to govern them, or Jerusalem?
However, as will be shown later, the question of the territory of the king of the north must be
determined by the Word of God, and not by the speculations of men.

16

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

10. THE KING OF THE NORTH IS KING OF BABYLON.
The term “the king of the north” is a Scriptural one and should be answered from the Scriptures.
That “the king of the south” refers to Egypt we are definitely told in Daniel 11: 8, 9, for when “the king of
the south” returned from his victorious conflict with “the king of the north,” he returned “into his own
land” and he came “into his own kingdom,” which is distinctly said to be “Egypt.” Thus “the king of the
south” is located for us in the Scriptures. See also Daniel 8: 9. Now, as the prophecy drops the theme of the
king of the south at v. 25 but concludes with the conquests and doom of “the king of the north,” he assumes
a greater importance for the people of God than “the king of the south.” Accordingly, we would expect God
would be more certain to inform us from the Scriptures concerning the identity of the king of the north than
He would of the king of the south.
The Bible defines its own terms. By comparing Scripture with Scripture, as we are admonished to
do, we see that the Bible use of the word “north” is in relation to Babylon and the river Euphrates. The
Scriptures emphatically declare: “The north by the river Euphrates ... .. in the north country by the river
Euphrates” (Jeremiah 46: 2, 6, 10). In the book of Jeremiah, references are repeatedly made to the coming
of the Babylonians from the north, the region of the Euphrates, to destroy Jerusalem and to afflict God’s
professing people. See Jeremiah 1: 13, 14, 15; 4: 6; 6: 1; 25: 9, 26; etc. It was the book of Jeremiah which
Daniel studied in connection with his visions (Daniel 9: 2). He thus could not be mistaken as to the territory
referred to in the term “the king of the north,” for the king of Babylon was declared to be the king of the
north. The Lord had said through Jeremiah: “Behold, I will send and take all the families of the -north, said
the Lord, and Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, -My servant, and I will bring them against this land”
(Jeremiah 25: 9).
The question as to how far north extended the territory of Seleucus Nicator or his descendants
need not be discussed for that has no Scriptural significance. The question, however, is: “Did Seleueus
occupy the territory around Babylon and the Euphrates?” The decisive answer is “Yes!” As is well known,
Alexander the Great died at Babylon, 323 BC. When Seleueus Nicator laid the foundations of the Seleucid
kingdom he made Babylon his residence and the center of his government. And historians have pointed out
that that empire remained comparatively strong so long as it was governed from the region of the Euphrates
and the Tigris. One of the main causes of its disintegration was the removal of the center of its government
to Antioch. Though we would greatly desire to quote a number of historians, space confines us to a few
brief extracts:
“At this division (301 BC.) all Syria from the Euphrates to the sea, also inland Phrygia, fell to the
lot of Seleucus.” “The Roman History,” quoted in “The Source Book,” p. 211.
“Babylon was Seleucus’s first choice; and there his court was held for some years previously to
his march against Antigonus.” Later, “He founded, and built with great rapidity, the city of Seleucia upon
the Tigris, at the distance of about forty miles from Babylon ... Seleucus once more transferred the seat of
empire ... for almost the western point of his vast territories ... Antioch. The change weakened the ties
which bound the empire together ... Among the causes which led to the disintegration of the Seleucid
kingdom, there is none that deserves so well to be considered the main cause as this.” “The Sixth Great
Oriental Monarchy,” George Rawlinson, M.A., chapter 3, pp. 34, 35.
Concerning the territory of the king of the north, the following brief extract from Myer’s “General
History” represents many similar statements made by various historians:“Syria, or the kingdom of the Selucidae (312-65 BC.).Under its first ruler this kingdom comprised
nominally almost all the countries of Asia conquered by Alexander, thus stretching from the Hellespont to
the Indus; but in reality the monarchy embraced only Asia Minor, Syria, and the old Assyria and Babylonia
but finally the country was overrun by the Roman legions and was made a part of the Roman Republic (63
BC.).”
In his “History of Greece,” Volume 4, p. 281, Adolf Holm declares that ancients regarded the
Seleucids “as in the main having nothing to do with Asia Minor at all. Only Syria and the country to the
east of it are assigned to the Seleucids.”
In Daniel 11: 7 the prophecy declares that the king of the south “shall enter into the fortress of the
king of the north.”
Where was that “fortress”? We quote from “Daniel and Revelation,” p. 232: “Ptolemy ... invaded
Syria, slew Laodice, and proceeded as far as Babylon ... took the city of Seleucia, which was kept for some

17

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
years afterward by the garrison of the kings of Egypt. Thus did he enter into the fortress of the king of the
north.” (Italics mine.)
Thus the Lord has made doubly sure that by the term, “the king of the north,” He means the power
possessing territory centered in the region of Babylon and the Euphrates. That the term “the king of the
north” applied to the Selucidae because it held territory in the region of Babylonia and Syria will be seen
when noticing that the territory of the first king referred to in Daniel 11 as “the king of the north,”
Antiochus Theos (Daniel 11: 6), was practically limited to that region. From Antiochus I to Antiochus III
none of the Seleucid kings ruled over Thrace, Macedonia, and most if not all of the provinces of Asia
Minor, yet each one is alluded to as “the king of the north.”
The last king referred to as “the king of the north,” prior to verse 40, is Antiochus III. See Daniel
11:15. Rome, the power that fulfilled Daniel 11: 16 and came “against him”-the last “king of the north,” see
v. 15-forced Antiochus III to keep to his territories south of the Taurus mountains. Rollin, in his “Ancient
History,” book 18, chapter 1, refers to him as “Antiochus, King of Syria.” Later, BC. 65, Syria was
conquered, and added to the Roman Empire. The term “the king of the north” is maintained in the prophecy
until his territory is absorbed in the Roman Empire. Then Rome, the second Babylon, becomes the king of
the north, and as such stood “in the glorious land, which by his hand was consumed” (v. 16). Subsequent to
Rome’s conquest of Palestine, BC 63, this Roman king of the north attacked the king of the south (Daniel
11: 17), and later completely subdued Egypt to his power (v. 25). In the year 30 BC. Egypt was made a
Roman province.
It will be observed that the first time the conquering legions of Rome are represented as moving
across the screen of prophecy, they are represented as coming from the north “toward the south” (see
Daniel 8: 9). As their conquests of “the east” (BC 65) and “the pleasant land” (BC 63) were prior to Egypt
being made a Roman province in BC 30, the mention of their move to “the south” before “the east” and
“the pleasant land” would serve to indicate their coming from the north.
The prophecy of Daniel 11: 15-17 outlines the conquest, first of Syria thus making Rome the king
of the north, then Palestine and, continuing on in his conquests, subdues Egypt. Now it will be observed
that, in verses 40-45, the king of the north is again pictured as covering by conquests the same territories as
did Rome: from the north he proceeds in a southerly direction until not only Egypt, but also Libya and
Ethiopia are subdued. In other words, the last-day “king of the north” - the Papacy will do something
similar to that done by literal Rome. As we shall show later, the Papacy is represented in earlier parts of the
prophecies of Daniel as repeating in a spiritual sense in relation to the church that, which literal Rome did
literally in relation to the literal Jews. However, Papal Rome’s power will extend beyond that of pagan
Rome’s national power-this is the import of the prophecy of Daniel 11:40-45.
It is a custom of Bible writers to bring their readers down to an important part of their prophecy,
and then take time to give details by which the power referred to may be identified before proceeding
further. Thus, having connected Rome with, and as, the king of the north and “the glorious land,” details
are then given by which Rome may be definitely identified. Three leading Roman personalities - Julius,
Augustus, and Tiberius Caesar-and their outstanding features are mentioned (Daniel 11:17-21), bringing the
reader down to the breaking, first, of “the Prince of the Covenant” (our Lord, in the nineteenth year of the
reign of Tiberius), and, secondly, to the rejected Jewish nation (see v. 22). Regarding the “flood”
mentioned in v. 22, compare with Daniel 9: 26 and see later references to the river Euphrates “in the north
country” flooding over its banks as a devastating “flood,” and threatening to destroy God’s people. Pagan
Rome, the king of the north, coming from the region of the Euphrates, flooded the typical land of Israel.
The Papacy-the spiritual king of the north-situated upon the spiritual Euphrates (Revelation 17: 1; Jeremiah
51:13) will flood across the anti typical land of Israel, and will reach right up to the neck, even to Jerusalem
(see Isaiah 8: 7, 8; Daniel 11:45; etc.), but God’s wrath will be poured out upon the flooding of the
Euphrates (Revelation 16: 12). See further concerning this when we study more closely into Daniel’s
amazing last prophecy.
Having traced the course of history down to the first coming of Christ and to His death on the
cross, and continued on to the end of the Jewish nation, until Rome is completely identified as the king of
the north-the “robber” or “breaker” of God’s Son, and the Jewish nation-and also the “breaker” of His true
people, about which more will be said when dealing with Daniel 11:14 and Daniel 12:7 R.V.-the prophecy
then retraces the steps of history to deal with Rome as the king of the north destroying the king of the south.
Verse 23 refers to the League made by the Jews with the rising power of Rome (BC 161). Here the
prophecy goes back to the beginning of the Jews’ dealings with Rome and brings down a direct line of
events to the final conflict and the Second Coming of Christ.

18

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Having identified Rome (down to the end of the Jewish nation) as the king of the north, its final
attack upon Egypt (in the battle of Actium, BC 31) is brought to view in v. 25. Here, the king of the south is
again mentioned as such-in v. 17 he is not named because the prophet has set out to thoroughly establish
Rome as the king of the north before again naming the king of the south. By Rome’s attack upon the king
of the south-that power that had been hither to attacked by the king of the north-it further suggests that
Rome is the king of -the north.
The end of literal Rome as the king of the north is intimated in Daniel 11:27: “the end shall be at
the time appointed.” Rome was to “forecast his devices from [Newton] the strongholds, even for a time”
(11: 24), or 360 years. Rome governed from the city of Rome, and in connection with its final battle against
the forces of Egypt it would continue for “a time.” Following the battle of Actium, in BC 31, Egypt was
made a Roman province. Counting 360 years from then brings us to AD 330, when Constantine moved the
seat of his government from Rome to Constantinople.
Before literal Rome passes completely from the prophecy, mention is again made of the dreadful
siege of Jerusalem and the destruction of the Jewish nation (v. 28). The Romans returned “with great
riches” from their expedition against Egypt (BC 31). After their “exploits” in Judea (AD 70) they also
returned to their “own land.” Verses 29, 30 point to “the end” – “the time appointed” - of the literal Roman
power which had centered in Rome. “Constantine’s removal of the seat of empire to Constantinople was
the signal for the downfall of the empire. Rome then lost its prestige. The barbarians of the North soon
began their depredations, and extended their conquests till the imperial power of the West expired in AD
476.
“This was indeed different from the two former movements brought to view in the prophecy; and
to this the fatal step of removing the seat of empire from Rome to Constantinople directly led.” “Daniel and
Revelation,” p. 258.
Thus from the prophecy drops literal Rome, and from its ancient seat of empire rises the Papacythe spiritual king of the north. It is to this power that the index finger of prophecy points from the latter part
of v. 30 until the end of the chapter (1l:45), and also over in chapter 12: 7; etc.

11. THE PAPACY ATTACKS GOD’S SANCTUARY
The book of Daniel (1: 1, 2) commences with the spoliation of God’s temple by the Babyloniansthe remainder of Daniel deals fully with the temple, and the people of God who are faithful to the teachings
centered in that sanctuary, and their enemies who oppose the Lord’s sanctuary and its services.
Isaiah said: “Our adversaries have trodden down Thy sanctuary” (Isaiah 63:18)- “The king of the
Chaldees . . . all the vessels of the house of God . . . all these he brought to Babylon. And they burnt the
house of God, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem” (2 Chronicles 36:17-19). The desolation of the
sanctuary by the hands the Babylonians is the subject of Psalm 74: “All that the enemy hath done wickedly
in the sanctuary. Thine enemies roar in the midst of Thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs
[i.e., within the ruins of the sanctuary] ... they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and
hammers. They have cast fire into Thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of
Thy name to the ground. They said in their hearts, Let us destroy [margin “break”-see Daniel 11:14, 12:7]
together” (vs. 3-8).
God’s adversaries made war upon His people and the sanctuary-these two: the people of God and
His sanctuary are positively inseparable in the Scriptures. This fact cannot be over emphasized. Without
this knowledge the books of Daniel and Revelation cannot be understood aright. Everything in the two
books, particularly, revolves around the truths of the sanctuary: the sanctuary in heaven and the spiritual
sanctuary on car-h. God’s adversaries have always sought to “break them together.”
Briefly speaking, the sanctuary services were instituted to teach two major truths: (1) the majesty
of the Law of God; its holiness and its inviolability: the sinner must die; (2) salvation only through the
death of the Savior. The services of the sanctuary all centered in the Ten Commandments, in the center of
which is the Sabbath Commandment. In changing the Sabbath, the Papacy struck at the very heart and seal
of God’s law, and in doing so struck at the very center of the entire sanctuary service. This is what the Lord
designed to be revealed by the prophecy of Daniel 7. However, the Judgment would sit in the heavenly
sanctuary, and upon the earth the spiritual sanctuary would have restored to it the knowledge of the true
Sabbath. In Daniel 7, the little horn takes away the Law of God. In the eighth chapter, it takes away the

19

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
gospel by substituting its own mediatorial system for that which is Christ’s. This is the main burden of
Daniel 8 and 9.
The prophecy of Daniel 8 and 9 traces the rise of the Roman power: Pagan and Papal. The Lord
leads His people to see how ancient Babylon finds its anti type in spiritual Babylon. Literal Rome bridges
the history between these two false systems of worship-one centered in literal Babylon on the Euphrates,
the other centered in spiritual Babylon situated upon the spiritual river of Euphrates. In Daniel 8 and 9, the
invasion of “the pleasant,” or “glorious land” (Daniel 8:9) by literal Rome and the destruction of the typical
temple, city and nation of Israel, are set forth as a type of the invasion of “the glorious land” by the Papal
king of the north (Daniel 11:41) who would do spiritually in connection with the church-spiritual Israel,
“the temple” of the Lord, “the holy city”-what literal Rome did literally to the literal nation, temple and city
of Jerusalem. Now Daniel’s last prophecy was given to present details of how Rome entered into “the
glorious land, which by his hand shall be consumed” (Daniel 11:16). Details of how the Papacy arises out
of the ruins of the literal Roman empire, and spiritually invades “the glorious land,” and attacks God’s
sanctuary and His Commandment-keeping people.
Daniel 8:10-12 foretold how literal Rome would invade Palestine and slay “the Prince of the host”
and destroy the Jewish nation and the sanctuary; these verses also have a double application in regard to the
spiritual Romans who would do the same things only in relation to the church. “And an host was given him
against the daily [Christ’s continual sanctuary mediation]”. Immediately after these verses, Daniel heard the
conversation between our Lord and Gabriel: Gabriel asks, “How long shall be the vision concerning the
daily, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?
And He said unto me, Unto two thousand and three score days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.” That
Daniel’s last prophecy was given to present details of the vision concerning Christ’s continual mediation in
the heavenly sanctuary, the substitution of the Papal system of mediation and the treading down of the
spiritual sanctuary on earth, is obvious by noting that Daniel 11:31 introduces the Papacy (after the break
up of the literal Roman empire, v. 30) by referring back to Daniel 8:11. The principle that nations come into
the prophecies when the powers concerned come into contact with God’s people applies here: through its
counterfeit system of worship it attacks Christ and His people.
Literal Rome ends with Daniel 11:30 and spiritual Rome takes over in Daniel 11:31: “And arms
shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily
[mediation of Christ], and they shall place the abomination that makes desolate [the Papal system of
mediation that God abominates because of its idolatry and its cruelty to His people]”. Daniel 8:l2 says:
“And an host was given him against the daily”; Daniel 11:31 says: “And arms shall stand on his part, and
they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily.” This correct application of
Daniel 11:31 in relation to the Papacy and the sanctuary, etc., is further demonstrated by Daniel 12:11, for
here we are given the answer relative to the question asked in Daniel 8:13-14 concerning “How long”
would the Papal abomination be permitted to tread “under foot” “the sanctuary and the host”? We are
informed in Daniel 12:11 that “from the time that the daily [mediatorial service of Jesus in the heavenly
sanctuary] shall be taken away [as it was by the Papacy in AD 508] to set up the abomination that makes
desolate, there shall be one thousand two hundred and ninety days,” margin. Commencing with AD 508,
1290 years brings us to (1798) the termination of Papal power to persecute God’s people.
Now, in Revelation 11:1-3 the persecution of God’s people during the Dark Ages is explicitly
declared to be an attack upon God’s “temple” and “the holy city.” That is, the Lord in Revelation 11:1-3
applies spiritually in connection with the church that which literal Rome did in connection with the literal
city of Jerusalem. Compare Luke 21:24 and Revelation 11:2 and observe that identical language is used in
both regarding the treading under foot of the city, Jerusalem. The persecution of God’s people is clearly
outlined in Daniel 11:31-35, this fact is acknowledged by all Seventh-day Adventists. Thus, having
introduced in Daniel’s last prophecy the Papacy as the power that attacks God’s spiritual “temple” and
“holy city,” the prophecy would naturally continue in this spiritual setting in relation to the church. Thus
Paul applies Daniel 11: 36, 37 to the Papacy as if it had succeeded in invading the land of Israel, broken
down the walls of “the holy city” and “sits in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God” (2
Thessalonians 2: 3, 4). Paul also refers to Daniel 11: 37 when he says of the Papal system: “Forbidding to
marry.” The celibacy of the Papal priests and nuns is one of the specifications brought to view in the
prophecy of Daniel 11. By its celibacy, the Papacy is able more successfully to enslave both priests and
people in their false mediatorial system.
Daniel 7 describes how the Papacy broke into God’s spiritual temple and altered the center of the
Ten Commandments-the Sabbath Commandment. Daniel 11 points forward to the time when the final

20

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
conflict will concern obedience to the Savior’s mediatorial service by strict compliance with the Sabbath
Commandment, while the Papacy will seek by all its mighty force to break through the walls of Jerusalem
and spoil, as in the Dark Ages, the spiritual “temple” and “the holy city.”
The closing verses of Daniel 11 must be understood in the light of the verses that have preceded it:
as a description of how Papal Rome will attack the people and sanctuary of God “the glorious holy
mountain”- in the final conflict. Verses 31-35 dealt with the attack by the king of the north upon the
spiritual “holy city” (Revelation 11:2); then, he broke into the spiritual temple and city. In the final conflict
he will not succeed in repeating what he did then, for he will come to his end, and none shall help him. The
church will be delivered for it will be held as a “fortress” “impregnable to the assaults of Satan.” See Acts
of the Apostles, Page , 600; Desire of Ages, Page , 323.

12. PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
Another important principle of interpretation is given by Uriah Smith: “It is a manifest rule of
interpretation that we look for nations to be noticed in prophecy when they so far become connected with
the people of God that mention of them becomes necessary to make the records of sacred history
complete.“ – “Daniel and Revelation,” p. 45.
The application of this principle would mean that Turkey is not the power referred to in Daniel’s
last prophecy. The power brought to view in Daniel 11: 40-45 must be one whose activities concern the
people of God-such has been Daniel’s previous presentations of the work of the Papacy. We are explicitly
informed in Daniel 10:14 that Daniel’s last prophecy, particularly, was given to show what would “befall”
God’s people “in the latter days.”
Another principle which must be remembered is: “Later revelations are explanations of those
given earlier.” This principle of “Repeat and Enlarge” operates throughout the Bible. What follows must be
considered in the light of what has preceded it. The introduction of a book will often suggest the main
features to be considered in the following pages. Thus the sublime declaration at the commencement of the
Bible: “In the beginning God created,” indicates that throughout the Scriptures we are dealing with an
Almighty God; consequently none should be surprised at, or doubt what follows. The second chapter of
Genesis enlarges upon the creation of man recorded in the first chapter.
By this principle of “Repeat and Enlarge” we understand why commentators have taught that
Daniel’s last prophecy is really an enlargement of his earlier prophecies. Uriah Smith believed that the
prophecy of Daniel 11 was a commentary on the eighth chapter. In his introduction to the Eleventh chapter
of Daniel, he says: “This prophecy, says Bishop Newton, may not improperly be said to be a comment and
explanation of the vision of chapter eight; a statement showing clearly he perceived the connection between
that vision and the remainder of the book.”
Daniel’s last prophecy was given to him after he had prayed earnestly for three weeks in order to
obtain light on the prophecy recorded in chapters 8 and 9. As stated by Uriah Smith: “For what purpose did
this aged servant of God thus humble himself and afflict his soul? Evidently for the purpose of
understanding more fully the divine purpose concerning events that were to befall the church of God in
coming time; for the divine messenger sent to instruct him says, ‘From the first day that thou did set your
heart to understand,’ etc. Verse 12. There was then still something which Daniel did not understand, but in
reference to which he earnestly desired light. What was it? It was undoubtedly some part of his last
preceding visions; namely, the vision of chapter 9, and through that of the vision of chapter 8, of which
chapter 9 was but a further explanation. And as the result of his supplications, he now received more
minute information respecting the events included in the great outlines of his former visions.” Daniel and
Revelation, p. 219, 1891 edition.
It is perfectly obvious that as Turkey is not in the slightest degree brought into the prophetic
limelight of Daniel’s earlier prophecies, it could not possibly be referred to in his last prophecy which was
given to explain more fully what had already been given him. Throughout the book of Daniel the Lord has
given His people a survey of the struggle between the forces of good and evil, and in Daniel’s last prophecy
He describes the consummation of that conflict. He would not break off just at the climax of His picture of
the awful age-long, eternity deciding, world-wide conflict in order to introduce a comparatively small
national event, which is entirely foreign to Daniel’s prophecies, and also utterly irrelevant to the great
controversy.

21

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
The book of Daniel commences with the historic reference to the invasion of Judea and the
overthrow of Jerusalem, the destruction of the temple of God, and the taking of the vessels from the house
of God to the house and service of the gods of Babylon. See Daniel 1: 1, 2. In harmony with the law of
“Repeat and Enlarge,” we see that throughout the book of Daniel, Jerusalem, the temple of God, and the
“perils, conflicts and deliverance” of the people of God are constantly the center and the circumference.
The mention of other powers is merely to point out their enmity to God, His truth, and His people
“The final deliverance of the people of God” (Great Controversy, Page 341), to which the
prophecies of Daniel and John point, is foreshadowed in the earlier deliverance recorded in the book of
Daniel. In his rage at being frustrated of complete dominion, Nebuchadnezzar with boasting said to the
three faithful Hebrews, who typify the people of the Third Angel’s Message “Who is that God that shall
deliver you out of my hands?” (Daniel 3: 15). The faithful three trusted in the God of Israel to deliver them,
and the covenant-keeping God walked with them in the fiery furnace, and “delivered” them. The double, or
repeated and enlarged, application of this experience refers to the last days, when the people of God-the
people of the Third Angel’s Message who refuse to bow down to the spiritual image of the beast
(Revelation 13, 14, etc.)-will be thrown into times of unparalleled peril; but Jesus, by His angels, will walk
with them in the world-wide, spiritual, fiery furnace and will “deliver” them from their spiritual Babylonian
enemies. Thus we see the connection between the deliverance of the three Hebrews, brought to view in
Daniel 3, and the deliverance of God’s world-wide, spiritual Hebrews, mentioned in Daniel 12: 1.
In the sixth chapter of Daniel is recorded another instance of deliverance pointing to “the final
deliverance of the people of God.” The plot of Daniel’s enemies to persuade the king to pass a law
necessitating a choice between obedience to God’s Law or the law of the State, will be repeated and
enlarged in its double application when the apostate churches seek government aid to enforce Sunday laws.
As the king did not see the subtlety behind the request of Daniel’s enemies, so many lawmakers will not
discern the cunning behind the appeal to the State to pass laws which will bring spiritual Israel into times of
extreme peril. After passing through a night of supreme trust in God, Daniel was “delivered” (see Daniel
6:14, 16, 20, 27) from his peril: similarly, spiritual, world-wide Israel, after being plunged into a period of
affliction and distress necessitating implicit trust in their God, will be “delivered” (Daniel 12: 1) at the time
of the 6th plague.
As the deliverance recorded in the earlier chapters of Daniel point forward to “the final
deliverance of the people of God,” so do the other recorded experiences concerning Jerusalem, its temple,
and its people point forward to their repetition and their “final” counterpart in the last days. The forces of
Babylon that brought peril and disaster to Jerusalem and its temple are repeatedly declared in the book of
Jeremiah (a book which Daniel studied in connection with his visions, see Daniel 9: 2) to come from “the
north.” See Jeremiah 1: 13, 14, 15; 4: 6; 6: 1; 25: 9, 26; etc. “The king of the north” refers to the king of
spiritual Babylon who, in the last days, will lead his forces in Satan’s “final” assault upon the city and
people of God.

13. WHO IS DELIVERED AT THE TIME THE END?
The answer to these questions vitally affects and determines our interpretation of the closing
verses of Daniel 11. Shall we follow the Futuristic system of interpretation? Or the teaching of the New
Testament? Concerning those “delivered” (Daniel 12: 1), those who follow the Futuristic system declare:
“Thy people-That is, Daniel’s people the Jews. Cf. Daniel 9: 15. 16, 20, 24; 10: 14” - Scofield’s Bible.
Now, it must be admitted that in the verses quoted by Scofield. the terms “thy people” and “my people”
undoubtedly refer to the literal Jews. How then, can we apply the same term in Daniel 12: 1 to spiritual
Israelites? There is not the slightest intimation in the verse itself of any change over from literal, Palestinian
Jews to world-wide, spiritual Jews. Surely some principle must operate to determine that a verse which
would naturally be understood in the same literal sense as previous verses, where the same term is
employed, be interpreted in connection with spiritual Jews? How do we explain this “spiritualizing” of the
Scriptures? By principles that are employed throughout the New Testament.
The New Testament plainly declares that the church is now “the Israel of God” (Galatians 6:16,
etc.), and is the inheritor of all the “things” of Israel. The servant of the Lord has declared: “We are
numbered with Israel all the promises of blessing through obedience, are for us” – “Ministry of Healing,” p.
405. “The Israel of to-day the true church.” “Spiritual Israel-His church on earth.” Prophets and Kings,

22

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Page 74, 370-372, etc. It cannot be over-emphasized that the New Testament applies the principle that not
only Israel typified the church but that all associated with Israel in the Old Testament is also to be
interpreted in relation to the church. For further consideration of this most important principle of
interpretation, the reader is advised to obtain the writer’s “Certainty of the Third Angel’s Message” and his
other publications, such as “The Moral Purpose of Prophecy.”
“The kingdom of God shall be taken from you [literal Israel] and given to a nation [spiritual Israel]
bringing forth the fruits thereof” (Matthew 21:43). To those who bear the fruit of the Spirit” (Galatians
5:22, 23) in the Lord’s vineyard (Matthew 21:33-43; John 15: 1-11, etc.) are assured the blessing and
protection of God. “You [the church] are a holy nation” (1 Peter 2: 9).
The Futuristic system is based upon the denial of this plain, New Testament teaching. The belief
that Turkey comes to his end at Jerusalem (Daniel 11: 45), with the whole of the interpretation regarding a
war between nations in Palestine as “Armageddon,” is part of the Futuristic system and is a contradiction of
the principles upon which our message is established. Futurists still build their doctrines upon a belief in a
literal, Palestinian fulfillment of the prophecies pertaining to Israel. Thus Scofield’s Bible (p. 1226) says:
“The promise of the kingdom of David and his seed, and described in the prophets (2 Samuel 7:8-17, refs.,
Zechariah 12: 8) enters the New Testament absolutely unchanged (Luke 1: 31-33).” “Unchanged” so far as
the terminology is concerned. but positively changed regarding the people to whom those prophecies and
designations apply. Here we come to the principle by which Daniel 11: 40-45 should be interpreted, to be in
harmony with New Testament teachings.

14. THE NEW COVENANT AND PROPHECY
Many who preach about the New Covenant do not thoroughly grasp its relationship to the
interpretation of prophecy. While believing that the church is the heir to all that anciently belonged to
national Israel, many fail to apply this principle when interpreting the prophecies. As indicated in the
extract from Scofield given in our previous chapter, expositors of prophecy are led to interpret the
prophecies, such as that concerning the king of the north, nationalistically because of the language
employed. The language seems to convey that the events portrayed are to be understood in relation to
military wars, therefore, they say, they must refer to such. Papists, Futurists, Historicists and others who are
looking for the literal, Palestinian fulfillment of such prophecies as Daniel 11: 40-45; Ezekiel 38; 39; Joel
3; Zechariah 14; Isaiah 2: 1-5; Micah 4: 1-8; Revelation 16: 12-16, etc. continue to interpret them according
to the Old Covenant. They fail to heed the principle fully demonstrated in the New Testament that no
matter how nationalistically a prophecy concerning Israel and her foes may be couched, it is spiritualized in
connection with the church. The New Covenant is made “with the house of Israel and the house of Judah”
(Hebrews 8: 8). The church is now the “nation” of Israel (1 Peter 2: 9; Matthew 21: 43). The phraseology
employed to designate the church is the same as that describing national Israel in the Old Testament. The
New Testament christianizes Hebrew words and sentiments, and clothes them in an evangelical dress, and
consecrates them to Christ and His church. So far as the words are concerned, one could believe that it is
the same Israel referred to in both the Old and the New Testaments. But that language has to be understood
in the light of the many instances in the New Testament where such Old Testament prophecies are
spiritualized in connection with the church. Those prophecies which would have had their literal Palestinian
fulfillment had the Jews been faithful now have their spiritual fulfillment because the church has taken the
place of national Israel.
The prophecies of both the Old Testament and the New are given a distinctly Jewish or Palestinian
setting. But how could any of the prophecies have been given to the Jews with any but a Jewish or
Palestinian setting or background? However, the New Testament clearly interprets these prophecies, in
spite of their Palestinian setting, in a spiritual, world-wide sense in relation to the church. The New
Testament shows that the things of the Old Covenant have now a world-wide application. The “things” of
Israel in the Old Testament are lifted out of their literal setting and employed in a world-wide application in
relation to the spiritual kingdom of Jesus Christ. God’s last day Message is based upon the principle that all
the “things” of the Old Covenant apply now in an anti typical sense (1 Corinthians 10: 6, 11, margins; etc.).
That the prophecies concerning Israel and her enemies (about which the prophecies cited above pertain) are
to be applied in a world-wide sense in relation to the church. Those who expect the literal, Palestinian
fulfillment of these and other prophecies take those now world-wide “things” of Christ in the New

23

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Covenant, and force them back into a Palestinian setting as under the Old Covenant.
The prophecies cited above do not refer to a military conflict to be waged in Palestine, but are
graphic prophetic pictures of the great conflict between the forces of good and evil, couched in a
Palestinian setting. As shown later, Daniel’s last prophecy was given to reveal the great spiritual conflict.
Five times in this prophecy mention is made of “the covenant.” The first (Daniel 11: 22) points to the
crucifixion by the Romans of “the Prince of the covenant.” See Daniel 11: 22, 28, 30, 32. God’s covenant is
made with everyone who keeps His Commandments. See Deuteronomy 7:9; 11:13, 14; Jeremiah 31:33-37.
“To a people in whose hearts His Law is written, the favor of God is assured.” Desire of Ages 106. This, of
course, is possible only through believing in Christ. Those who join with the Lord in the spiritual conflict
are assured of God’s blessing and protection. In “Early Writings,” under the chapter heading, “Deliverance
of the Saints” (which deliverance of course refers to Daniel 12: 1), God’s servant says: “It was midnight
that God chose to deliver His people ... [they] hear the covenant of peace” that God makes “with those who
had kept His Law . . . God ... delivered the everlasting covenant to His people,” p. 285.
Having rejected the provisions of the covenant, the Jewish nation was destroyed by the Romans. In
the prophecy of Daniel 11 there occurs a change-over from literal Rome to spiritual Rome (verses 30, 31),
as there has been a change-over from the literal Jews to spiritual Israelites. It is significant that when the
prophecy passes from literal to spiritual Rome the covenant is referred to three times as “the holy
covenant”-see Daniel 11: 28, 30. There is no change in the covenant, but there is a change from literal to
spiritual Israel. Literal Rome co-operated with spiritual Rome in attacking “the holy covenant” between
God and His people. Daniel 11: 30. From these verses onwards (31-45) the prophecy must be interpreted in
relation to spiritual Rome and her spiritual foes-the true Israel of God who are faithful to the covenant,
Daniel 11: 32. The conflict described in the closing verses of this chapter, even though couched in a
Palestinian setting, must be interpreted in relation to the spiritual conflict over the Law of God. In Daniel
12: 1, those designated “thy people” are spiritual Israelites, even though the wording does not indicate it. In
previous parts of Daniel that term applied to- literal Israel, but here it refers to spiritual Israelites because
the New Testament has laid down the principle that all that belonged to national Israel now belongs to the
church. Similarly, the New Testament teaching is that the enemies of Israel and all prophecies which have a
Palestinian setting (and they all do in principle) have their world-wide fulfillment in relation to the church.
This is the principle that must guide in the understanding of Daniel 11:40-45. To interpret these verses in
relation to nations engaging in literal conflict in Palestine, is to forget the clear light that shines from the
pages of the New Testament and to misinterpret these grand revelations concerning the spiritual conflict as
if the Old Covenant concerning national Israel and her “land” (Deuteronomy 15:4; etc.) were still
functioning.
One of the noticeable features resultant from interpreting the prophecies according to the New
Covenant is that they are greatly, enlarged in their meaning and their scope. In the terms of the Old
Covenant, their fulfillment would have occurred in the literal land of Israel; in the terms of the New
Covenant they are applicable in all the world-the world becomes the spiritual land of Israel, for God’s
people are found in all the world.
Spiritual things are world-wide in scope, whereas literal things are limited in scope. For example:
when a prediction concerning Israel is applied in a literal sense to Palestine, that prophecy is limited to that
locality, and it is limited to a particular time. Take the prophecy of Joel 2: 23-27. Early and latter rains are
predicted to fall upon the “land” of Israel (see v. 18). Futurists apply this passage to literal rains to fall in
Palestine. This limits the prophecy in a material sense to both time and place. But the spiritual application is
world-wide and, in a limited degree, continuous in time, during this “dispensation of the Holy Spirit.”
Space alone forbids us pointing out that all prophecies pertaining to the last days which are
interpreted in relation to Palestine, are interpreted according to the terms of the Old Covenant. Satan
counterfeits by limiting to Palestine in relation to the Jews that which the Third Angel’s Message applies
spiritually in all the world.
Applying this principle in our present investigation of the prophecy relating to the king of the
north, we would like to point out that verses 36-40 of Daniel 11 are wrongly applied in connection with
events covering a few years of the French Revolution. In the New Testament these verses are applied as a
description of the Papacy throughout its long history. The same erroneous limitation is also noticeable
when Daniel 11: 40-45 is interpreted in relation to Turkey and limited to the region around the literal city of
Jerusalem; by interpreting these verses in relation to the Papacy and to the great struggle between the forces
of good and evil, the events described therein apply in any part of the world where the mark of the beast
will be enforced.

24

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM

15. INTERPRETING DANIEL 11:45
To national Israel the Lord said: “If you will obey My voice indeed, and keep My covenant, then
you shall be a peculiar treasure unto Me above all people ... And you shall be unto Me a kingdom of priests,
and an holy nation” (Exodus 19:5, 6). Embodied in the Ten Commandments the Lord made the promise:
“That thy days may be long upon the land, which the Lord thy God gives thee” (Exodus 20:12). “For the
Lord shall greatly bless thee in the land which the Lord, thy God gives thee” (Deuteronomy 15:4). “He
shall bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God gives thee” (Deuteronomy 28:8; 30:16; etc.). “A land
which the Lord thy God cares for: the eyes of the Lord thy God are always upon you.” (Deuteronomy
11:12). The land promised them is said to be God’s land-see Deuteronomy 32:43; Isaiah 14:25; Jeremiah
16:18; Ezekiel 38:16; Joel 1:6; 2:18; 3:2. Their sins would cause them to be driven from this land of
blessing. Deuteronomy 4:26; 11:17; 28:63; Joshua 23:13, 15, 16; etc. “But if you turn away, and forsake
My statutes and My commandments ... then will I pluck them up by the roots out of My land which 1 have
given them” (2 Chronicles 7:19, 20).
Throughout Scripture, the typical character of the promised land (as well as the people, etc.) is
revealed. For further consideration of this theme the reader is urged to obtain the writer’s “Certainty of the
Third Angel’s Message.” Not only the sanctuary and its services pointed to something greater, but “the
whole of the previous economy is affirmed in the New Testament to be typical” - See Fairbairn’s
“Typology of Scripture.” Notice the following extracts from the authoritative work, “The Progress of
Doctrine in the New Testament,” by T. D. Bernard, MS, pp. 128, 129, 222:
“The Gospel is the heir of the Law; that it inherits what the Law had prepared. The Law, on its
national and ceremonial side, had created a vast and closely woven system of ideas. These were wrought
out and exhibited by it in forms according to the flesh-an elect nation, a special covenant, a worldly
sanctuary, a perpetual service, an anointed priesthood, a purchased possession, a holy city, a throne of
David, a destiny of dominion. Were these ideas to be lost, and the language which expressed them to be
dropped when the Gospel came? No! It was the heir of the Law. The Gospel claimed them all, and
developed in them a value unknown before. It asserted itself as the proper and predestined continuation of
the covenant made of God with the fathers, the real and only fulfillment of all which was typified, and
prophesied, presenting the same ideas which had been before embodied in the narrow but distinct limits of
carnal forms, in their spiritual, universal, and eternal character. The body of types according to the flesh
died with Christ, and with Christ it arose again a body of anti types according to the Spirit.
“The principle that the same things which were done under the old covenant in the region of the
flesh are done under the new covenant in the region of the Spirit opens out in the doctrine of the mediatorial
work of Christ in the true tabernacle. The sanctification of believers as a kingdom of priests and a holy
nation, and their destined inheritance in a promised land and an holy city of their God. The expansion of
these doctrines fills and forms all the Epistles.
Which the Holy Ghost teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual, the interpretation of these
words is best derived from the fact everywhere apparent in the Apostle’s writings, namely, his habit of
working out all the more recondite and (if I may use the word) scientific parts of the evangelical doctrine
by the aid, of the Old Testament, the types, images, and sentences of which were, we know, in His sight
‘spiritual’. The appropriation of the Old Testament words to express the New Testament doctrines is a part
of this elucidation.”
Because the correct interpretation of Daniel 11:40-45 depends upon the application of the principle
of the typical character in this prophecy (the same typical character applied by Seventh-day Adventists in
connection with the previous prophecies of Daniel-Israel, the sanctuary, repairing of the breach in the walls
at Jerusalem, the call out of Babylon, etc., etc.), we quote from another well-known authority. In his “Bible
Handbook,” pp. 203, 285-292, Dr. Angus says:
“As the future was thus represented in visions, and under a typical dispensation, it can excite no
surprise that the whole is often described in figurative, and, allegorical or symbolic terms. Besides, as
everything earthly supplies images for describing things spiritual, the law is therefore appropriate as it is
necessary.
“In the same way, they speak of His kingdom, either of grace or glory, as the highest perfection of

25

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
the Jewish economy. It is called Jerusalem, or Zion. Isaiah 62:1, 6, 7; 60:15-20; Galatians 4:26-28;
Hebrews 12: 22. See also Isaiah 60: 6, 7; 66: 23.
“In the same way, the enemies of the kingdom of the Messiah are not only called by the name
given to the enemies of the ancient theocracy, viz., the nations of the Gentiles, but they often bear the name
of some one people, who, at the time, were peculiarly inimical or powerful. In Isaiah 25, they are called by
the name of Moab. In Isaiah 63 and Amos 9:12, by the name of Edom; and in Ezekiel 38, by the name of
Gog ... Nor need this peculiarity of prophetic language excite surprise. It is found pervading the whole
ancient dispensation.”
Seventh-day Adventist students of Scripture will agree that these statements are a clear summary
of the teachings of the whole of the Bible. And by heeding the principle thus expressed there exists among
us a unanimity of opinion respecting the interpretation of Daniel’s prophecies-until we reach the last verses
of Daniel 11. The reason the unity is not maintained in respect to these verses is because those who apply
them in relation to Turkey and Palestine inconsistently omit the application of the principle of type and anti
type which they have maintained throughout the book of Daniel until the last few verses of Daniel 11 are
reached! This appears all the more marked when the same principle of the anti type is again applied in the
very next verse (Daniel 12:1) regarding the term “thy people”-the anti typical, spiritual Israelites! It should
not be forgotten that because Israel and their land are anti typically applied here, so must the other nations
mentioned in connection with them also have their anti typical characteristics-the king of the north, Egypt,
Edom, Moab, the children of Ammon Ethiopia, Libya.
SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISTS SHOULD NOT FOLLOW
THE FUTURISTIC SYSTEM WHEN INTERPRETING DANIEL 11:45.
The Futuristic system, which is Satan’s counterfeit of the Third Angel’s Message, teaches the
strictly literal interpretation of the prophecies concerning “Israel and the Holy Land.” Scofield’s Bible, p.
918 (notes on Daniel 11), says: “Prophecy does not concern itself with history as such, but only with
history as it affects Israel and the Holy Land.” Accordingly, Futurism interprets Daniel 11 and other
prophecies in relation to Palestine. This is the basic difference between Futurism and our Message. By
reading the notes in Scofield’s Bible, it will be seen that all the prophecies which we as a people apply
spiritually or anti typically, in connection with spiritual Israel in all the world, are applied literally in
relation to Palestine and the Jews. This fact alone should help Seventh-day Adventists to shun the Futuristic
system when interpreting Daniel 11:40-45; Joel 3; Zechariah 14; Ezekiel 38; 39; Revelation 16: 12-16; etc.
THE SPIRIT OF PROPHECY GUIDES IN OUR INTERPRETATION
We are given guidance by the Spirit of Prophecy respecting the interpretation of prophecies
involving Palestine. In Ezekiel 34, under the picture of the flock of God with “one Shepherd over them,”
Israel feeds “upon the high mountains of Israel.” Commenting upon this chapter, the Lord’s servant says:
“Christ applied these prophecies to Himself.” Desire of Ages, Page 477. Referring to Ezekiel’s prophecies
concerning “the mountains of Israel,” the Spirit of Prophecy again declares: “Many and wonderful are the
promises recorded in Scripture regarding the church,” Acts of the Apostles, Page 479. “An earthly shepherd
knows his sheep, so does the divine Shepherd know His flock, that are scattered throughout the world.”
Desire of Ages, Page 479.
Thus the designations, “the land of Israel,” “His land,” “their land,” “the mountains of Israel,” etc.,
now refer to the world-wide kingdom of our Lord, Jesus Christ. In this light we must interpret Daniel
11:45.

16. “THE GLORIOUS HOLY MOUNTAIN.”
It would seem incredible if it were necessary to prove to enlightened Seventh-day Adventists that
Jerusalem, today, could not possibly be designated by the Lord “the glorious holy mountain”: “the sacred
hill so fair” (Moffatt’s Translation). The prophecy does” not state that Jerusalem which was anciently
“holy” will be where the king of the north comes to his end. The prophecy refers to that which will be
glorious and holy at the time the king of the north comes to his end. In the prophecy of Daniel 8 and 9, 70

26

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
weeks, or 490 years, were allotted to the Jewish nation and to “thy holy city” (Daniel 9: 24). At the
expiration of that period, the Jews and Jerusalem were rejected as the people and city of God.
After God’s complete and irretrievable rejection of the literal Jews, the literal city of Jerusalem,
and the literal temple, the New Testament writers refer to the church as “Israel” (Galatians 6:16), “the tribes
of Israel” (Revelation 7:4-8; 21:12), “Jews” (Romans 2: 28, 29), “the temple” (1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 6:19;
2 Corinthians 6:16; Ephesians 2:21, 22), “Mt. Zion” (Hebrews 12:22; Joel 2:32, compare with Romans
10:13; Isaiah 28:16 with 1 Peter 2:6-8; Isaiah 59:20 with Romans 11:26; etc.), ‘7erusalem” (Hebrews
12:22), “the holy city” (Revelation 11:2).
“The holy mountain” refers to the dwelling place of God. See Psalm 87:1; Isaiah 11:9; 56:7; Joel
3:17; Ephesians 2:21; etc. Jerusalem was called “the mountain of the Lord of hosts the holy mountain” only
when the Lord dwelt “in the midst of Jerusalem.” Zechariah 8: 3. Literal Jerusalem is not now “the glorious
holy mountain” - such a designation belongs only to the church. Things are “holy” only when they have a
true relationship to the Godhead. God’s Presence made “holy” the ground upon which Moses stood
(Exodus 3: 5). Ancient Israel became “an holy nation” (Exodus 19:6; Leviticus 20:26; etc.) when God
dwelt among them (Exodus 25: 8). But the term “holy people,” applicable to the literal Jews until the time
of their rejection, belongs now to spiritual Israel (see Daniel 8:24 and Daniel 12:7) in whose midst the Lord
now dwells. See 1 Corinthians 3:17; 2 Corinthians 6:16; Ephesians 2:21; etc. The term, “the holy
mountain,” belonged to Jerusalem so long as God’s Presence was there, but that term could not apply to it
after God withdrew His Presence and favor when He rejected the Jewish nation as His people. That term
now belongs to the church. The church is “an holy nation,” “a spiritual house, an holy priesthood” offering
“up spiritual sacrifices” upon “Mt. Zion.” See 1 Peter 2:5-9; Revelation 14:1; Ezekiel 34:13, 14; 36:1-8; 40
to 48.
In the New Testament, following God’s rejection of the Jewish nation, there is a total silence
regarding Jerusalem being holy or in any way figuring in God’s plan or purposes, and no prophecy made
subsequent to that rejection ever employs the points of the compass as if they centered in literal Jerusalem
literal Jerusalem dropped completely out of the prophetic picture. It is contrary to New Testament teachings
to apply the term “the glorious holy mountain” (Daniel 11:45) to the rejected city. Roman Catholic
reverence for relies lies in their superstitious belief that something holy remains with some place or thing
once contacted by a holy person. But unless God’s Presence and blessing are ever-present no thing and no
place is “holy.” To interpret “the glorious holy mountain” (Daniel 11:45) in relation to literal Jerusalemwhether in reference to the Papacy or to Turkey-is merely applying the Futuristic principle of interpretation
on a basis level with Roman Catholic reverence for relies.
Just as the term “thy people” employed earlier in the book of Daniel (Daniel 9:15, 16, 20, 24;
10:14) changes automatically from literal to spiritual Israel in Daniel 12:1; just as the “holy people” (Daniel
8:24) changes from literal to spiritual Israel in Daniel 12:7, so the term “holy mountain” in Daniel 9:16, 20
changes to the spiritual realm of the church in Daniel 11:45.

17. JERUSALEM IN THE PROPHECIES OF THE AGES.
The Spirit of Prophecy applies prophetic references to Jerusalem in connection with the church.
The following are a few examplesIsaiah 4: 3, 4: “He that is left in Zion, and he that remains in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even everyone
that is written among the living in Jerusalem!”
These verses are applied spiritually in relation to the church (Great Controversy, Page 485), and with the
victory of the remnant people of God over their enemies-5 Testimonies, Page 475, 476; Prophets And
Kings, Page 592.
Zephaniah 1:12: “I will search Jerusalem with candles, and punish the men that are settled upon their lees.”
This verse is quoted spiritually in connection with the church-Great Controversy, Page 310; 5 Testimonies,
Page pp. 99, 308; etc.
Zechariah 12:8: “In that day shall the Lord defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and he that is feeble among
them at that day shall be as David.”
In 5 Testimonies, Page 81 we read this comment: “The most weak and hesitating in the church, will be as
David.” See also 6 Testimonies, Page 42; etc.

27

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Zechariah 13: 1: “In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants
of Jerusalem for sin and uncleanness.”
This verse is employed by God’s servant to describe the work of the Gospel (Patriarchs and Prophets, Page
413; Prophets And Kings, Page 695; 6 Testimonies, Page 227; etc.)-thus “the inhabitants of Jerusalem”
refer to believers in any part of the world.
Joel. 2: 1: “Blow you the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in My holy mountain.”
God’s servant applies this in connection with the preaching of God’s last-day Message-see Great
Controversy, Page 310, 311; 8 Testimonies, Page 195.
Zechariah 14: 2, 3, 12-14: “I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle. Then shall the Lord go
forth, and fight against those nations.” This prophesied gathering of the nations to light against Jerusalem
the Lord’s servant quotes in Great Controversy, Page 657; Early Writings, Page 289 when describing the
fate of “those who have professed to be the spiritual guardians of the people” (Great Controversy, Page
656), but have “fought against Jerusalem”-the true church.
The Spirit of Prophecy, when writing of the last days, never applies a prophecy (no matter how the
language would indicate its literal fulfillment) in connection with literal Jerusalem, but always in
connection with the church.
In the book of Ezekiel, chapters 40 to 48, is a description of a great city and temple “upon a very
high mountain” in “the land of Israel” (Ezekiel 40:2; etc.). “This is the law of the house; Upon the top of
the mountain the whole limit thereof round about shall be most holy” (Ezekiel 43:12). “Waters issued out
from under the threshold of the house eastward” (Ezekiel 47:1). Concerning the river which emerged from
the eastward side of this house on the “very high mountain” in “the land of Israel,” the Spirit of Prophecy
says: “Wonderful is the work which the Lord designs to accomplish through His church. A picture of this
work is given in Ezekiel’s vision of the river of healing. (Ezekiel 47:8-12).” In 6 Testimonies, Page 227
God’s servant declares that this “mighty river seen in Ezekiel’s vision” comes from the fountain opened “to
the inhabitants of Jerusalem” (Zechariah 13:1), and is being fulfilled in the work being done by God’s
people to-day.
That the Christian church is portrayed by the beautiful imagery of the huge temple and city in the
“holy oblation” “in the land of Israel,” has been expressed by many godly commentators. See Dr. Clarke’s
Commentary, Brown’s Bible, etc. The tract of land which was set aside to contain the temple, city, etc.,
called “the oblation,” measured 200 miles around. (See the writer’s other publications for further details.)
When John pictured the slaughter of those who attacked God’s people in the final conflict, he declared that
the winepress of God’s wrath in which they would be destroyed was “trodden without the city, by the space
of a thousand and six hundred furlongs” (Revelation 14:20; 19:15). One thousand six hundred furlongs
make 200 miles, which is the circuit of the Holy Oblation in which the temple and city were pictured in
Ezekiel’s vision of the church-”in the land of Israel.” “Upon the top of the mountain the whole limit thereof
shall be most holy.” It is called the “holy oblation” because “The Lord is there” (see Ezekiel 43:12; 48:20,
21, 35). The Revelator declares that “Armageddon” “the mountain of slaughter” occurs outside “the holy
city” – “the true church.” Thus “the glorious holy mountain” (Daniel 12: 1) cannot possibly refer to literal
Jerusalem, but to the church.
JERUSALEM, THE STORM CENTRE OF THE GREAT CONTROVERSY
Throughout the Scriptures, the storm center of the ages is the city of Jerusalem, the name of which
means “foundations of peace”; Jerusalem, the city of “the Prince of Peace.” Jesus likened the church to “a
city set on an hill” giving light to “the world” (Matthew 5: 14). That city is’ Jerusalem built on Mt. Zion:
“Jerusalem ... is the city of the great King” (Matthew 5: 35). To correctly understand all the prophecies
depicting the spiritual conflict, Jerusalem must be interpreted as the center of the battle between good and
evil. In the Old Testament, Jerusalem was the literal center of national Israel, and many of Israel’s national
enemies came against Jerusalem-the city of “peace.” Though foes were without, peace reigned within the
city when Israel was faithful. In this we see typified the church as a whole, and also each individual.
Through their allegiance to God, the church and individual Christians become the center of attack by foes
who are stirred to “war” against the Holy Son of God within. But, while enemies gather outside the walls of
“the holy city” (Revelation 11: 2, etc.), the heart is at peace with God. After the millennium, Jerusalem “the New Jerusalem” - will still be the center within which “the Prince of Peace” reigns, but enemies, bent
on “war,” will literally gather outside.
As the writer has fully demonstrated in his “Certainty Of the Third Angel’s Message,” the

28

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
principle upon which the book of Revelation is based is that of the triple application of the things of Israel:
(1) Historic events of ancient Israel; (2) their spiritual application in this “dispensation of the Holy Spirit”
(3) a literal application in reference to the eternal kingdom. Old Testament historical or prophetic
references to attacks upon Jerusalem are spiritualized in the New Testament sermons and prophecies in
relation to the church. Enemies of the people of God who literally gathered around and attacked ancient
Israel’s literal city of “peace” are brought into the spiritual imagery of the Revelation as types of the
enemies who gather around to attack the spiritual city of spiritual Israel. The Revelator carries this
representation through until the end of the 1,000 years. Then, all the literal enemies of ancient Israel and all
the enemies of the church will literally gather around the literal city in which reigns the visible Son of God,
the Prince of Peace, the Destroyer of the evil which makes “war” on Him, and on His people.
Prophecies depicting the final conflict over the Law of God- such as Daniel 11: 40-45; Joel 3;
Zechariah 14; Ezekiel 38; 39; Revelation 16: 12-16-employ the same phraseology as if Israel still dwells in
“the Holy Land.” The language is the same, but its application is different. It does not refer to national, but
to spiritual Israel; the land is not the literal but the spiritual land of Israel. The enemies do not literally
gather against the literal city of Jerusalem, but they are represented as if they did-for Jerusalem is the type
of the church. These same prophecies apply both before and after the millennium. They may be
summarized as follows: Before the millennium, Satan attacks Christ in His church, the spiritual Jerusalem;
after the millennium, Satan attacks Christ and His church within the literal Jerusalem: before the
millennium, the “war” is a spiritual uniting to attack the spiritual center. After the millennium, it will be a
literal gathering and a literal attack upon the literal center the holy city.
The “war,” or “battle,” which the Revelator describes from its commencement in heaven
(Revelation 12:7) until its close (Revelation 20:8), is “the war” between Christ and, Satan depicted in “The
Conflict of the Ages” series of the Spirit of Prophecy. The Bible and the Spirit of Prophecy teach that the
“battle” (Revelation 20:8) after the millennium is the same “battle,” or “war” (Revelation 12:17; 16:14;
17:14; 19:11-21) as before the millennium. Revelation 16: 14 calls it “THE battle,” and some authorities
state that the original of Revelation 19: 19 and 20: 8 refers to “THE battle.” Moffatt’s Translation of
Revelation 20:8 terms it “THE fray.” Futurism, which basically is Satan’s attack upon the Law of God,
depicts these prophecies concerning the great controversy, in relation to military wars to be fought in
Palestine. Seventh day Adventists who proclaim these prophecies in this military sense are assisting the
designs of Satan.
The final conflict will be waged “without the city” (Revelation 14: 20). “The fugitives whom the
Eternal calls shall be inside Jerusalem” (Moffatt’s Trans. Joel 2:32). This prophecy declares that
“deliverance” will come to “the remnant” “in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem.” Joel 3 is the continuation of
the same prophecy: the gathering of the nations around Jerusalem and the “deliverance” of Israel “inside
Jerusalem” can refer only to the victory of God’s Commandment-keeping “remnant” against whom. Satan
is to make “war” in the last days (Revelation 12:17). This is precisely what is taught in the prophecy
concerning ‘the king of the north who will encamp around Jerusalem (Daniel 11: 45) with the intentions of
destroying it, when he comes to his end by the intervention of the Lord on behalf of His people.

18. NORTH, SOUTH, EAST AND EGYPT IN DANIEL 11
Having shown that “the glorious holy mountain” refers to the church, it naturally follows that
whatever else is mentioned in the prophecy must be interpreted in harmony with that fact. It is impossible
to have a literal north, south and, east in the usual sense literally based upon a spiritual mount or city. As
Jerusalem, the church, is world-wide so the geographical points of the compass must be interpreted
accordingly. The literal points of the compass mentioned in the prophecies concerning Israel and her
enemies are now spiritually applied in relation to spiritual Israel, “the holy city.” See Isaiah 11:12, 13; 60:112; Ezekiel 38:12, 5, 6; 39:2, 7; 47:1-8; Joel 3:2, 9-14, 17, 21; Jeremiah 3:17; Isaiah 54:15, 17; Revelation
19:19; 17:13, 14; 16:14; Ephesians 2:21, 22; etc.
The loud cry from heaven (Revelation 18: 1) is based upon the coming of the Lord to the “east”
gate of the temple “upon a very high mountain” “in the land of Israel” (Ezekiel 40:2; 43:12): “And the
glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east, and the earth shined with His glory. And the glory
of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east” (Ezekiel 43:1-4).
The Revelator’s application of this shows that when “east” is employed literally in relation to the church, it

29

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
refers to the east of the whole world. When Jesus comes He will be seen coming in the literal eastern
heavens. See Great Controversy, Page 640; Early Writings, Page 15. The “east” mentioned in Revelation 7:
2 and 16: 12, also Matthew 24: 27; etc. refers to the “east” of the whole world. Thus, from the application
made by the New Testament of Old Testament prophecies mentioning the east of “the mountains of Israel,”
we know that north, south and east of Daniel 11: 40-45 do not have any literal significance in relation to
literal Jerusalem. After the rejection of the Jewish nation no prophet of God ever mentioned literal
Jerusalem as the center from which emanated the points of the compass. The church (having taken the place
of the literal
Jews) is depicted as if it were Israel still dwelling in “the Holy Land.” The teaching that the king of the
north refers to Turkey and that Gog coming from “the north parts” (Ezekiel 39: 2) refers to Russia,
completely ignores the New Testament which applies those prophecies in relation to the church-and NOT
in relation to the literal Jerusalem.
As another example of how literal directions of the compass mentioned in the Old Testament lose
their relation to literal Jerusalem when referred to in the Revelation, observe Zechariah 6: 1-15 and
compare with Revelation 6: 1-8. The four colored horses of Zechariah’s prophecy do their appointed work
in connection with the deliverance of God’s people from ancient Babylon and their call back to Jerusalem
to rebuild the temple and city. From Babylon in “the north” to Egypt in “the south,” God’s people were
given the call to come to “build in the temple of the Lord.” When the Revelator employs these colored
horses to describe the conflicts and progress of the church (Revelation 6) in building the spiritual temple
while fighting against the forces of Babylon and of the world, he does not mention anything concerning
“north” or “south.”
Prophecies depicting a gathering of God’s people from all directions of the compass to Jerusalem,
are always employed in the Spirit of Prophecy in a spiritual sense in relation to the church. See Isaiah
11:11, 12; 60:1-11; etc., and notice the application in “The Acts of the Apostles,” p. 595; “Early Writings,”
pp. 74-76; etc.
Egypt, the literal king of the south, in the early parts of Daniel 11, is mentioned in Revelation 11:8
in a spiritual sense. Jerusalem, which also comes into the study of Daniel 11, is likewise mentioned in
Revelation 11:2 in a spiritual sense, for here “the true church” is said to be “the holy city.” As shown
elsewhere, the Revelator in chapter 11 of his book refers to Daniel 11: Egypt, the king of the south, the
Papacy, the king of the north who attacks “the holy city,” and the church, “the holy city.” Egypt, the king of
the south who pushes at the Papacy (see Daniel 11: 40) is mentioned in Revelation 11: 8 in connection with
the revolutionaries who deluged France with blood at the time of the French Revolution. They ascended
“out of the bottomless pit” (Revelation 11: 7): they came from “beneath.” See Proverbs 15:24; Isaiah 14:9;
John 8: 23. Commenting upon the power referred to as being “spiritually Egypt,” and applying it to the
French atheistic revolutionaries, the Spirit of Prophecy says: “This is atheism; and the nation represented by
Egypt would give voice to a similar denial of the claims of the living God.” Great Controversy, Page 269.
The French Revolution was really a revolt against the authority of the Papal church, which suffered
severely at the hands of the revolutionaries. Thus did “the king of the south push at him” (the Papacy) “at
the time of the end.” Thus the Papacy, whose persecutions of the church are mentioned in Daniel 11:32-36
and which, are depicted in Revelation 11:2 as an attack upon “the holy city,” and the king of the south that
pushes at the king of the north, are each mentioned in both Daniel 11 and Revelation 11. From Revelation
11 we therefore see that the prophecy of Daniel is interpreted spiritually in relation to the church.
Lamenting over the worldly state of the church, God’s servant says: “The church has turned from
following Christ, her Leader, and is steadily retreating toward Egypt.” 5 Testimonies, Page 217.
As shown elsewhere, Babylon is said to be “north” of Jerusalem. Babylon’s destruction would be
brought about by nations to the north and to the east. See Jeremiah 50:9; Isaiah 41:2, 25; 46:11; etc. In
harmony with the type, spiritual Babylon will be destroyed by heavenly powers coming from the north and
the east. God’s throne is said to be in the north. See Psalm 48:2; Ezekiel 1:4; Isaiah 14:13, 14; etc.
However, whenever heavenly beings or messengers come down to visit the earth, because of the rotation of
the earth upon its axis from west to east, they appear as if coming over the eastern horizon. Thus God’s
last-day Message, from the throne of God (Revelation 5:1; etc.), comes from the east (Revelation 7:2). The
loud cry (based upon Ezekiel 43:1-4, where the glory of the God of Israel is said to be manifested at the
eastern gate of the temple) is “the tidings” which come “out of the east and out of the north” that “trouble
him,” Babylon, “the king of the north.”
Referring to the completion of the work of God on earth, the Lord’s servant says: “I was pointed
down to the time when the third angel’s message was closing. The power of God had rested upon His

30

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
people. The last great warning had been sounded everywhere, and it had stirred up and enraged the,
inhabitants of the earth who would not receive the message.” Early Writings, Page 279.
The loud cry will be given with such mighty power that the king of the north will become greatly
troubled thereby; “therefore he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, and utterly to make away many”
(Daniel 11: 44), and to accomplish his designs he encamps about the spiritual “holy city,” but the Lord
intervenes to deliver His people-this is the teaching of Daniel 11: 45; 12: 1.

19. “THESE SHALL ESCAPE OUT OF HIS HAND”
In harmony with the fact that the term “thy people” in Daniel 12: 1 must be interpreted spiritually,
according to New Testament teaching, so nations mentioned in prophecies concerning “Israel” must also be
applied spiritually. Thus Edom in Daniel 11: 41 is not to be understood as referring to literal Edomites-of
which there are none in the world to-day! Observe the New Testament interpretation of the prophecy of
Amos 9: 11, 12 concerning Edom. Israel was to “possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen,” or
“Gentiles.” Paul, Barnabas and Peter each came to the church council held at Jerusalem to give their
testimony of the wonderful way the Lord was working through them in winning Gentiles to the Lord. After
summarizing Peter’s testimony very briefly, James quotes this prophecy of Amos 9: 11, 12 to show that this
prophecy was meeting its fulfillment in the winning of souls from “among the Gentiles.” In the prophecy of
Amos we read: “That they [Israel] may possess the remnant of Edom.” James reads it as: “That the residue
of men might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles” (Acts 15: 7, 12-17).
The apparently literal, or’ geographical, sense of the prophecy of Amos is thus applied in a general
sense in relation to the spiritual victories of the church in the conversion of the Gentiles. Anciently, the
Edomites were the enemies of God’s people, and at every occasion sought to harm the people of God. They
assisted the Babylonians in the destruction of Jerusalem. In reference to this, the Psalmist says:
“Remember, O Lord, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Raise it, raise it, even to the
foundation thereof.” (Psalm 137:8). In a number of places in Scripture the Edomites are employed
symbolically as the enemies of God’s people see Isaiah 34; 63: 1-6; etc. In these passages the Edomites, or
Idumeans, are represented as being in rebellion against God: they are the representatives of those who are
hardened against the truth and God’s people. In the hard times when the early church struggled against
formidable odds, the winning of souls was like that of persuading Edomites to become persecuted
Israelites.
Even such usually hard people, according to Daniel 11: 41, will be won when the mighty power of
the loud cry strengthens them to escape from the hands of the Papacy.
In Isaiah 11: 11-16 we have a parallel prophecy to that of Daniel 11: 41-44. Isaiah’s prophecy
declares: “The Lord shall set His hand again the second time to recover the remnant of His people, which
shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt [note Daniel 11: 42, 43], and from Pathros, and from Cush, and
from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea. And He shall assemble the
outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the corners of the earth. They [God’s
people] shall lay their hands upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obey them.” Notice
that these are the very people mentioned in the prophecy concerning the activities of the king of the northEgypt, Moab, Edom, and the children of Ammon. In Daniel 11: 41 we read: “But these shall escape out of
his hand [the hand of the king of the north], even Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of
Ammon.” These are the very ones mentioned in the prophecy of Isaiah 11 as obeying “the remnant of His
[God’s] people.” That is, through heeding God’s last-day message of salvation, they “escape out of his
hand” and take their stand with the people of God “inside Jerusalem the holy city.”
In Early Writings, Page 74-76, God’s servant makes a spiritual application of the prophecy of
Isaiah 11:11-16. As the Lord’s servant has thus spiritualized the apparently literal prophecy of Isaiah 11:1116 in relation to the conflict between the forces of good and evil, the same people mentioned in the same
way in the prophecy of Daniel 11 cannot logically be interpreted in any other way than in connection with
the spiritual conflict-and not in connection with military exploits interpreted in relation to literal Jerusalem.
Commenting upon the prophecy found in Numbers 24: 17, the Spirit of Prophecy teaches that
“Moab and all the children of Sheth” represent “the enemies of God.” Patriarchs and Prophets, Page 451.
To-clay, and particularly in the loud cry, from among the ranks of God’s enemies, souls are being saved,
and will yet be saved, to take their stand with God’s people. See Early Writings, Pages 277-279. Thus will

31

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
“these escape out of his hand”-the hand of the Papacy.

20. OLD TESTAMENT PROPHECIES
A study of the New Testament-of sermons recorded therein or of epistles, etc., written after
Pentecost-will clearly reveal the fact that the disciples spiritualized Old Testament prophecies concerning
Israel and her enemies. It was this “better understanding” of the prophecies of Daniel and other Old
Testament prophecies that filled them with a zeal that envisioned them to preach Christ to hostile people,
that caused them to face martyrdom with fortitude. The same realization of the spiritual meaning of the
prophecies concerning the final conflict will also stir the people of God to-day, and will bring about that
“great revival” which the Lord’s servant says will follow from “a better understanding of the books of
Daniel and Revelation.”
The New Testament makes it plain that the prophecies concerning the reign of David’s Son were
being fulfilled subsequent to His death and resurrection (see Acts 2: 29, 32; 13:22-24, 32-34; Romans 1:4;
2 Timothy 2: 8). Paul preached the kingdom of God! And of Christ as a then reality, into which every
believer of the gospel was, and is, instantly translated (Colossians 1: 12, 13; 1 Corinthians 15:11; Acts
20:24-25, etc.) God has “raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus” (Acts 13: 22, 23; Luke 2:10, 11, 30-32, 68-70;
Acts 5: 30, 31). BY the work of the Holy Spirit in Messiah’s spiritual kingdom of grace, Christ is now
saving, redeeming Israel out of “all people.” That salvation is “in Zion” (Joel 2:32, Romans 11:26; 9:23; 1
Peter 2:4-7), in the church, where Jesus reigns.
When the disciples, who were still thinking of the immediate literal Palestinian fulfillment of the
Old Testament kingdom prophecies, asked: “Lord, wilt Thou at this time restore again the kingdom to
Israel? He said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons. BUT you shall receive power,
after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you” (Acts 1: 6-8). Prophecies concerning the Messiah’s kingdom
are now being fulfilled through the power of the Holy Ghost. “For the kingdom of God is not in word, but
in power” (1 Corinthians 4: 20).
Jesus is now reigning! The Prophecies concerning His kingdom of grace are now being fulfilled!
This was the thrilling burden of the apostles’ preaching after the descent of the Holy Spirit on Pentecost! It
was this recognition of the fulfillment of the kingdom prophecies in relation to the church that gave power
to their preaching, and which also aroused the anger of the Jews against them. That which the Jews
regarded as being wholly future, and to be fulfilled literally in connection with national Israel, the apostles
preached as being fulfilled in the work of preaching the gospel. Today, Christendom has been led so far
astray in its understanding of the prophecies that it takes the same view of those prophecies as did the Jews:
the literal, Palestinian fulfillment in relation to the Jews. When the people of God, like the early disciples,
seek God more earnestly in prayer and study and the Holy Spirit is poured out more fully upon them, they,
like the disciples, will emphasize more the spiritual interpretation of those prophecies which are so
popularly applied literally in relation to Palestine. As such preaching angered the Jews, so such preaching
to-day, backed home by the power of the Holy Spirit, will also create antagonism.
On the day of Pentecost, the inspired Peter declared that Jesus was raised to sit upon a throne; that
He was “both Lord and Christ” (Acts. 2:30-36). Peter’s sermon was very largely made up of quotations
from the Old Testament. The first of these is a long quotation from Joel 2: 28-32. Peter also quoted from
Psalm 110: 1. The remarkable feature about this Spirit-filled address which brought such results in soulsaving was Peter’s spiritualizing of these prophecies in relation to the work of the church. Peter quotes
Joel’s prophecy addressed to ancient Israel and applies them to all those who believe in Jesus as “both Lord
and Christ”: “all flesh,” “whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.” In Acts 2: 33, Peter
declares that the outpouring of the Spirit predicted by Joel was a demonstration of the fact that Christ had
already received and was exercising His royal authority. The King is now exercising His sovereign power.
Note this significance in such verses as Acts 3:16; 4:10, 30; 5:31; etc.
Peter’s quotation from Joel 2:32 (see Acts 2:21 and compare with Joel 2:32) shows that from the
time of Pentecost Old Testament prophecies concerning Zion, Jerusalem, the land of Israel, etc., were
interpreted as being fulfilled spiritually in connection with the work of Christ in preaching the gospel. From
the time of Pentecost the Holy Spirit has inspired the writers of Scripture to present a spiritual, world-wide
application of the Old Testament prophecies concerning Israel, the land of Israel, Jerusalem, etc.
In other publications the writer has fully demonstrated this principle. Space confines us in this

32

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
book particularly to the book of Daniel, though we turn for corroboration to the Savior’s prophecy
(Matthew 24; Luke 21), and the book of Revelation.
The book of Daniel commences with reference to the Babylonian invasion of Judea, the
destruction of Jerusalem and the temple of God, and the taking of the vessels from the house of God to the
house and service of the gods of Babylon. In the light from the New Testament we see the principle of
understanding the book of Daniel: the principle of type and antitype. When passing over into the Christian
era there is an automatic transition from literal to spiritual Babylon; from literal to spiritual Jerusalem; from
the literal lands of Israel and Babylon to their spiritual antitypes. What literal Babylon did to the literal
Jews, Jerusalem and the temple, is also done, in a spiritual sense, by spiritual Babylon in her spiritual “war”
against spiritual Israel.
In the prophecy of Daniel Two, the transition from the literal to the spiritual may be seen.
Beginning with Nebuchadnezzar, the king of literal Babylon, the prophecy continues down to the time of
spiritual Babylon, centered in Europe-the cradle of nominal Christianity. The position of absolute monarch
occupied -by the king of literal Babylon (Daniel 2:38) will be duplicated in a spiritual sense, when the
Papacy, through the enforcement of her “Sunday” by the nations of Christendom, will be exalted among the
people and shall say (in the pride of Nebuchadnezzar who boasted of the “great Babylon” he had built-see
Daniel 4: 30). “I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow” (Revelation 18: 7). The expression
“Great Babylon,” used by Nebuchadnezzar, forms the basis of the Revelator’s description of spiritual
Babylon-see Revelation 14:8; 16:19; 17:18; 18:2, 10, 16, 18; 19:3.
In chapter eight, we have already shown the transition from the literal to the spiritual in the
experiences of the three Hebrews, and of Daniel in his non-compliance with the Law of the State.
Chapter 7 of Daniel commences with literal Babylon, and passes on to spiritual Babylon, headed
by the little horn. In describing the beast (Revelation 13: 2) representing the Papacy, John passes from the
leopard (Greece) and the bear (Medo-Persia) to the lion (Babylon). See Revelation 13: 2 and compare with
Daniel 7. By this transition from literal to spiritual Babylon, the Holy Spirit illustrates the principle to be
followed in the study of the book of Daniel.
The same transition is also seen in relation to the two phases of Rome. Verses 23-25 of Daniel 8
uses the same words to picture both pagan and papal Rome. What Rome did nationally, spiritual Rome did,
and does, in a spiritual sense. The words “shall prosper, and practice, and shall destroy the mighty and the
holy people” fit both literal and spiritual Rome. Pagan Rome invaded the typical land, and destroyed many
Jews, their city and temple. Spiritual Rome invaded the spiritual land of Israel, and destroyed millions of
the members of spiritual Israel, and greatly damaged the spiritual “Holy City”. (Revelation 11:2). The
transition from literal to spiritual Rome automatically takes place, in harmony with the New Testament
principle. That papal Rome, in addition to pagan Rome, is described in Daniel 8: 24 is evident from the fact
that, in Daniel 12:7, this work of destroying “the holy people” is said to occur during the 1260 years of
Papal supremacy. When Jesus, in Matthew 24, quotes from the prophecy of Daniel regarding the coming of
“the abomination of desolation”-the Roman armies (Luke 21:20; Great Controversy, Page 21, 26). To
“destroy the city and the sanctuary” (Daniel 9:26, 27; Luke 21:20), and then passes, without, a break in His
sermon, to depict the destruction of the saints during the Dark Ages (Matthew 24: 15-20 and notice 21, 22),
He follows the principle employed in the book of Daniel. The “breaking in pieces” (Daniel 12:7, RV) and
the scattering of the Jewish nation, referred to by Jesus in Luke 21:24; Matthew-21:43, 44, etc., was the
literal fulfillment: but in the Dark Ages occurred the spiritual fulfillment, when papal Rome attacked the
spiritual city and temple-His church.
The same principle of the transition from the literal and local to the spiritual and world-wide is
seen in the prophecy of the 2,300 days. They commence (BC 457) with the decree for the return of the Jews
from Babylon “to restore and to build Jerusalem” (see Daniel 9:25; Ezra 7, etc.)-to “repair” (see Nehemiah
3; Isaiah 58: 12, 13) the damage done by the Babylonians. The ending of the 2,300 days brings us to the
time spiritual Israel comes out of Babylon (Revelation 18: 4) to “restore all things” (Matthew 17:11;
Malachi 4:5)-the true temple service (Revelation 11: 1, 2)-and to “repair” the breach (Isaiah 58: 12, 13).
As would naturally be expected, the same principle is maintained in Daniel’s last prophecy. From
the last hours of literal ‘Babylon, recorded in Daniel 5, we pass on to the last hours of spiritual Babylon
(Daniel 11:45). Literal Babylon was “weighed in the balances and found wanting” (Daniel 5:27); the
decisions of God’s Judgment were pronounced and disaster speedily followed. At the conclusion of
Daniel’s last prophecy, we are also brought to the time when God’s Judgment is pronounced upon modern
Babylon: it, too, is “weighed in the balances and found wanting.” Christ completes His mediatorial work,
probation closes and the seven last plagues speedily fall upon the persecutors of God’s people (Daniel

33

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
12:1).
While the literal Babylonians were praising their gods, Cyrus and his army – “the kings of the
east” (Isaiah 41:2, 25; 46:11; Jeremiah 51:11, 28) with their allies of the north (Jeremiah 60:41; 51:27, 28) having “dried up” the waters of the Euphrates (Isaiah 44: 27; Jeremiah 50: 38; etc.) entered and over thew
the city of Babylon. Daniel’s last prophecy (10 to 12) commences with Cyrus (Daniel 10:1)-Israel’s
deliverer, and the destroyer of her Babylonian oppressors (see Jeremiah 50:33, 34; Isaiah 45:13; etc.).
Again we see the transition from the events associated with the downfall of literal Babylon to the worldwide events associated with the downfall of modern Babylon (Daniel 11:45; 12:1). Cyrus, whose name
meant “the sun,” is brought to view in the Scriptures as a type of Jesus “the Sun of Righteousness”
(Malachi 4:2). The “double” application of the overthrow of Babylon by Cyrus refers to the coming of
Jesus, the Almighty “Cyrus,” the Shepherd-King (see regarding Cyrus in Isaiah 44:28). The Lord’s
Anointed (see also Isaiah 45:1), the Deliverer of Israel (Daniel 12: 1; Isaiah 45: 13), the One Who bids His
people go free (Luke 4: 18) to worship their God (Isaiah 44: 28; 2 Chronicles 36: 22-23; Ezra 1:1-8).
Daniel 11:44, 45; 12:1 points forward to the time when spiritual Babylon will oppress spiritual
Israel, and the waters of the Euphrates upon which Babylon, the great Whore, sits (Revelation 17:1, 15;
Jeremiah 51:13), will be “dried up” (Revelation 16:12). The 6th plague falls upon the “multitudes”
(Revelation 17:15)-the waters which support the great spiritual Babylonian Whore, and which are about to
slay the saints at the behest of Babylon. In the chapter (40), “God’s People Delivered,” the Lord’s servant
says: “The people of God . . . still plead for divine protection, while in every quarter companies of armed
men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing for the work of death. It is now, in the hour of utmost
extremity, that the God of Israel will interpose for the deliverance [i.e., Daniel 12:1] of His chosen. The
angry multitudes are suddenly arrested” (Great Controversy, Page 635). Thus God’s servant connects up
the deliverance (Daniel 12:1) of God’s people with the outpouring of the 6th plague. The 6th plague is
poured out upon the Babylonian “multitudes” who are seeking to slay the saints. When the mighty
demonstrations of God’s power are revealed on behalf of His people, the “multitudes” turn and rend their
spiritual advisers--thus the waters of the Babylonian Euphrates will no longer be Babylon’s bulwark and
glory, but serve to bring about her destruction.
The Lord will come to “deliver” His people from their Babylonian oppressors, and take them to
worship God in their native land-the eternal Canaan (Daniel 12: 13). It was to reveal these glorious truths
that God gave Daniel his last prophecy. There is not the slightest suggestion of a great battle to be fought
among the nations as the climax of Daniel’s prophecies. By this teaching Satan seeks to deflect God’s
people from the thrilling truths which are fully enlarged upon in the Spirit of Prophecy. The main burden of
the books of Daniel and Revelation concerns the “dangers, conflicts, and final deliverance of the people of
God.” It was to obtain light upon this important theme that caused! Daniel to fast and pray for three weeks.
This was the theme in the prophecies of chapters 7, 8, 9. There still remained some light to be given on “the
final deliverance” of God’s people. To make this clear, the Lord gave Daniel his last prophecy. The belief
in a military, or Palestinian, “Armageddon” is Satan’s smoke screen behind which he hides the light God
has given on the deliverance of God’s people from their Babylonian persecutors.

21. THE ENFORCEMENT OF SUNDAY LAWS
Daniel 11:45; 12:1 teach that the Papacy will employ all of its powers to destroy “the holy city,”
the church of the living God, but that the Lord will protect His people and destroy their enemies. This is the
teaching of the book of Daniel, the Lord in His Second Advent sermon, and also in the book of Revelation;
it is also the teaching of the Spirit of Prophecy. In Testimonies Volume 5, p. 451 we read:
“As the approach of the Roman armies was a sign to the disciples of the impending destruction of
Jerusalem, so may this apostasy [“the decree enforcing the institution of the Papacy in violation of the law
of God-previous paragraph] be a sign to us that the limit of God’s forbearance is reached and that the angel
of mercy is about to take her flight, never to return. The people of God are in affliction and distress and
trouble. The Judge of all the earth is soon to arise and vindicate His insulted authority. The mark of
deliverance [Daniel 12: 11 will be set upon the men who keep God’s Commandments, who revere His law,
and who refuse the mark of the beast.”
Notice the salient features: “The Roman armies” approach the city, Jerusalem. The Papal Sunday
is to be enforced, probation will close, God’s people will be in “trouble,” their “deliverance” is assured, for

34

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
God arises to destroy His enemies. This is exactly what is taught in Daniel 11:45; 12:1.
The servant of the Lord has explicitly declared that “the written testimonies are not to give new
light, but to impress vividly upon the heart the truths of inspiration already given. Additional truth is not
brought out; but God has through the Testimonies simplified the great truths already given.” 5 Testimonies,
Page 665. Where in the Scriptures do we find the truth contained that as the approach of the literal armies
upon literal Jerusalem was a sign of the impending destruction of the rejected Jerusalem, so the approach of
“the beast” and “the false prophet” “and their armies” (see Revelation 19: 19, 20) upon the spiritual city,
Jerusalem, would be the sign that God is about to arise and destroy His enemies? We find all this in the
correct interpretation of Daniel 11:45; 12:1.
In the Revelation, God’s people are pictured as being “on Mount Zion” (Revelation 14: 1). They
are inside “the holy city’-compare Revelation 11: 2 and 14: 20. This is also taught in Joel 2: 32: “The
fugitives whom the Eternal calls shall be inside Jerusalem” (Moffatt’s Trans.). Joel 3; Ezekiel 38, 39;
Zechariah 14; etc., depict a gathering, or uniting, of the “nations,” “heathen,” or “gentiles” against spiritual
Israel, and their destruction outside spiritual Jerusalem. The Spirit of Prophecy applies this gathering of the
“heathen,” or “nations,” against Jerusalem as a picture of the enemies of the church making war upon her
for her loyalty to God’s Commandments. See “Early Writings,” Pages 283, 284, 289; 1 Testimonies, Page
183, 184; Great Controversy, Page 657. The armies of the beast and the false prophet gather against the
Lord “in the person of His witnesses” (7 Testimonies, Page 182; see also Revelation 17: 14; Matthew 25:
40). The destruction of those who oppose the people of God-their “Armageddon” slaughter-occurs “without
the city” (Revelation 14: 20) “in the valley of Jehoshaphat,” or “Judgment” (Joel 3).
OUR LORD DEMONSTRATES THE TRANSITION FROM THE LITERAL TO THE SPIRITUAL
Without a break in His second advent sermon, Jesus passed from literal to spiritual Rome, from
literal Rome’s destruction of the literal Jewish nation, city and temple (Matthew 24:15-20), to spiritual
Rome’s destruction of spiritual Israel-the spiritual city and temple of God (Matthew 24:21, 22). This
“double” “spiritual” application of literal Rome’s “war” on Israel is definitely presented in the Revelation.
In Luke 21: 24 we read the Master’s prophecy: “Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles.” The
Roman nation came and Jerusalem was, and ever since has been, “trodden down” by “Gentiles.” That was
the “first” fulfillment of the Lord’s prophecy (which was based upon the prophecies of Daniel, Matthew
24:15). The “double,” “spiritual,” application is presented by the Lord in Revelation 11:2: “But the court
which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city
shall they [the Gentiles, as stated in Luke 21:24] tread under foot forty and two months.”
The Papacy-the spiritual Romans---by persecuting the true church trod under foot the spiritual
“holy city” as, similarly, the literal Romans brought destruction to literal Jerusalem in AD 70. This
interpretation is given in Great Controversy, Page 266: “Said the angel of the Lord: ‘The Holy city (the true
church) shall they tread under foot forty and two months.”
“The Periods mentioned – “forty and two months,” and “a thousand two hundred and threescore
days”-are the same, alike representing the time in which the church of Christ was to suffer oppression from
Rome. The persecution of the church.”
Thus the Lord has shown clearly the principle to be employed when interpreting the prophecies of
Daniel concerning Jerusalem and the holy mountain. The literal Romans destroyed the literal city
Jerusalem. In the Dark Ages, the spiritual Romans attacked “the holy city,” the church, and trod it under
foot. In the last days, it will again seek to trample it under foot, “and utterly to make away many” (Daniel
11: 44), but in its attempt “he shall come to his end, and none shall help him” (Daniel 11: 45).
The gathering of the nations to fight against Jerusalem, prophesied in Zechariah 14:1-3, 12-14, had
a local, partial fulfillment in AD 70 when the Roman armies (made up of many nationalities) were
permitted to destroy the Jews’ city because of their sins. God promised Israel: “Jerusalem shall be safely
inhabited. And this shall be the plague wherewith the Lord will smite all the people that have fought against
Jerusalem” (vs. 11, 12). The literal Romans were not plagued in, “their tongue” (v. 12), for the Jews were
not then God’s people, but the Revelator, quoting from this passage when describing the people of spiritual
Rome being smitten with the 5th plague, says: “And they gnawed their tongues for pain” (Revelation
16:10). In Great Controversy, Page 657; Early Writings, Page 289, God’s servant quotes from Zechariah
14:12, 13 when describing the fate of “those who have professed to be the spiritual guardians of, the
people” (Great Controversy, Page 656), but have “fought against Jerusalem”-the true church. Thus the
Spirit of Prophecy applies these prophecies of attacks upon Jerusalem in connection with the final conflict

35

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
over the Sabbath.
In His Second Advent sermon, Jesus said: “When you therefore shall see the abomination of
desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place [“the glorious holy mountain”] (who so
reads, let him understand).” Matthew 24: 15. In Daniel 9: 26, 27 we read of the coming of the Romans who
would “destroy the city and the sanctuary. And the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the
war desolations are determined, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate, even
unto the consummation, and that determined shall be poured upon the desolator.” (See margin.) The enemy
would “come in like a flood” but “the Spirit of the Lord,” because of their sins, would not “lift up a
standard against him” (Isaiah 59: 19). The “abominations” (mentioned in Daniel 9:27; 11:31; 12:11) is the
word employed in Scripture when referring to idolatrous worship. Commenting on Matthew 24:15, God’s
servant says: “When the idolatrous standards of the Romans should be set up in the holy ground, which
extended some furlongs outside the city walls, then the followers of Christ were to find safety in flight”
(Great Controversy, Page 26).
In describing the spiritual Roman power, the Revelator designates her “the mother of harlots and
abominations of the earth” (Revelation 17:5). Thus, in Revelation 17:4, 5 and also Matthew 24:15, Jesus
applies, in a “double,” “spiritual,” sense, Daniel’s prophecy concerning “the abomination of desolation.”
Both literal and spiritual Rome are designated by the same word: pagan Rome was an idolatrous power, and
papal Rome, also, is an idolatrous power.
To His disciples, Jesus declared: “And when you see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then
know that the desolation thereof is nigh” (Luke 21:20). When that occurred they were to know that “the
days of vengeance” had come (v. 22). As recorded in Matthew 24: 15, 16, Jesus said: “When you therefore
shall see the abomination of desolation stand in the holy place [Mark 13: 14 “standing where it ought not”],
(who so reads, let him understand:) then let them which be in Judea flee into the mountains.” As the sign
for the flight of the disciples was that literal Rome was standing threateningly around Jerusalem, “the holy
place,” where she should not have stood, so, by the principle of the “double spiritual,” application, the sign
for the flight of God’s people in the last days will be when spiritual Rome also stands “in the holy place” –
“standing where it ought not” - presumptuously stands in the place of God by enforcing the keeping of
Sunday in defiance of the Command of God.
It is acknowledged by all that the Papal assault on the church in the Dark Ages is described in
Daniel 11: 32-3-5 It is also acknowledged that this assault is described in Revelation 11: 2 as an attack
upon “the holy city.” Therefore the application that Daniel 11: 45 refers to the gathering of the forces of
spiritual Rome against the spiritual city of God, “in the-glorious holy mountain,” the church, is in harmony
with what has already been made clear in the same prophecy.
Paul quotes from Daniel 11: 36-39 when describing the rise and work of the Papacy: “That man of
sin ... as God sits in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God” (2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 4). The
Papacy is thus pictured as sitting “in the temple,” God’s church, which is represented as being “on the
mount Zion,” “in the glorious holy mountain.” Thus by combining the prophetic delineations the Papacy is
represented as being “in” Jerusalem during the Dark Ages. The events associated with the Reformation and
the great Second Advent Movement have caused the Papacy to be more or less ejected from Jerusalem. But
the prophetic word declares that the forces of evil will redouble their efforts to replace the Papacy fully
within the church-that once more “the man of sin” will seek to show that “he is God” by demanding the
world to obey his law instead of the Law of God. Thus Daniel 11: 45 points to the last conflict in which
“the man of sin,” “the beast,” “the little horn,” will again encircle “the holy city” to subdue or to destroy the
people of God. Thus the Spirit of Prophecy is in harmony with the Bible, when applying the Savior’s
prophecy of Jerusalem being surrounded by Roman armies to the enforcement of Sunday laws.

22. WILL THE PAPACY REMOVE ITS SEAT OF POWER?
Do the prophecies of Isaiah 2: 1-5 and Micah 4: 1-4 teach that the Papacy will establish its seat of
power in the literal city of Jerusalem? And will all nations receive the word of the Papacy as if it were the
word of the Lord coming from that ancient historic city?
Such an interpretation is based upon a total misunderstanding of the prophecies of Isaiah and
Micah. These contemporaneous prophets (compare Isaiah 1:1 and Micah 1:1, and notice marginal dates.
See also Prophets And Kings, Page 322, 330) were both burdened over the apostasy of God’s people: they

36

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
wrote concerning the judgments which would surely follow their departure from God and, as was the
custom of the prophets, they also painted glowing pictures of the blessings which would follow obedience.
The prophecies of Isaiah 2: 1-4 and Micah 4: 1-4 contain the Lord’s assurance of victory for His people and
the certainty of the triumph of the work of the Savior.
As is usual with all these precious promises for the church, the devil hides their grandeur by
causing men to misapply them in connection with something to occur literally in Palestine. The belief of a
Palestinian, military “Armageddon” is responsible for causing many, even among God’s people, to
misinterpret some of the most enlightening prophecies dealing with the conflict between truth and error.
Many are not entirely free from error concerning God’s rejection of the Jewish nation, because they do not
fully appreciate the New Testament principle that the church, now “the Israel of God,” inherits all the
promises made anciently to God’s people.
The prophecies of Isaiah 2:1-4 and Micah 4:1-4 concern the kingdom of the Messiah, and not that
of Satan’s kingdom! In the book “Counsels to Teachers,” Page 455, in the chapter entitled “The Word and
Works of God,” the Spirit of Prophecy quotes and applies Micah 4: 2 (the parallel verse to Isaiah 2:2) not to
the work and words of Satan (!), but in connection with the actual words of God Himself! “What a God is
our God! He rules over His kingdom with diligence and care” (Councils to Teachers, Page 454). The Lord
is now reigning “in mount Zion” (Micah 4: 7) over His church. The Word of God is now going forth from
His church, and it will continue to go from the church, and it will also go forth from the New Jerusalem
throughout eternity, “when the Lord of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before His
ancients gloriously” (Isaiah 24: 23, and see also Isaiah 60:11-20; 65:18, 19; 66:22, 23).
The Spirit of Prophecy makes the following comment on the prophecy found in Micah 4: 11
concerning the gathering of many nations against “Zion” (mentioned in verses 2 and 7)
“God will not fail His church in the hour of her greatest peril” (Prophets And Kings, Page 538). The
chapter heading of Isaiah 2 reads: “Isaiah prophesies the coming of Christ’s kingdom.” The chapter heading
of Micah 4 reads: “The glory and victory of the church.” Any other interpretation is entirely out of harmony
with the Scriptures and the Spirit of Prophecy.
The declaration that the people shall turn their war weapons into agriculture implements describes
the effect of God’s Word. Through the Gospel people cease being warlike and earn to trust God to fight
their battles for them. “Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
BUT they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid: for the
mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.” When describing the work of “the BRANCH”, (Luke 1: 78, margin), the
Savior, Zechariah records the words of the Lord: “I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that
day, said the Lord of hosts, shall you call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree”
(Zechariah 3: 10). The expression denotes security, trust, and confidence, and fitly describes the work of
the Gospel. See also 1 Kings 4: 25.
By comparing Isaiah 2:3; Micah 4:2 with such passages as Jeremiah 3:17; 23:6; 31:6; 32:37;
Zechariah 8:22, it will be readily seen that the prophecies of Isaiah 2:1-4 and Micah 4:1-4 refer to the work
of the Lord. To apply them in relation to Satan’s kingdom is a lamentable misinterpretation.
The prophecies of Isaiah and Micah concerned “Jerusalem” “and many nations” (Isaiah 2: 1-3;
Micah 1: 1; 4: 1-3). The prophet Zechariah also prophesied concerning “Jerusalem” “and many nations.”
He said: “Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls [see Ezekiel 38: 8, 11] for the multitude of
men and cattle therein: For 1, said the Lord, will be unto her a wall of fire round, about, and will be a glory
in the midst of her. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day.” The Spirit of Prophecy
applies this prophecy in connection with God’s care over His church and the work of making known the
Gospel unto the world. See Testimonies to Ministers, p. 18, and Prophets and Kings, Page 581.
These prophecies (1sa. 2 and Micah 4) are sometimes employed to support the speculation that
Satan will be crowned as Christ at Jerusalem. The Spirit of Prophecy does teach that “Satan himself will
personate Christ.” But there is no support either from Scripture or the Spirit of Prophecy for the belief that
Satan will be crowned as Christ at Jerusalem. The servant of the Lord says: “In different parts of the earth
Satan will manifest himself among men as a majestic being of dazzling brightness, resembling the
description of the Son of God given by John in the Revelation” (Great Controversy, Page 623, 624). For
further references to Satan’s impersonation of Christ, see also 5 Testimonies, Page 698; ST. 28; F.E. 471,
472; Testimonies To Ministers, Page 411; 9 Testimonies, Page 16; Early Writings, Page 56. In all these
references to this important feature of the future, not once is there a suggestion that the nations will be led
by Satan to gather at Jerusalem, or Megiddo, to the coronation of Satan as Christ. The only fact which is
sustained by revelation from God is that “in different parts of the earth Satan will manifest himself.”

37

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Anything beyond this inspired statement is mere speculation based upon a misunderstanding of the
prophecies of Isaiah 2; Micah 4, and those concerning “Armageddon.”

23. PROPHECY POINTS TO EUROPE-NOT PALESTINE
Modern Babylon, mentioned in the book of Revelation (Revelation 17:5; 18:2, 8, etc.), is centered
in Europe, and because that religion-political power is yet to wield a tremendous power over Europe and
the whole of Christendom, Europe comes into the purview of the prophecies, wherein is depicted the last
struggle in the great conflict between truth and error. See Revelation 17:12-14; etc.
The prophecy of Daniel, chapter two, commences with Nebuchadnezzar, the head of gold, in
literal Babylon on the river Euphrates; it ends with the head of spiritual Babylon lifted to a place of
prominence and power on the waters of the spiritual Euphrates. The head of Nebuchadnezzar’s image was
in literal Babylon on the river Euphrates; the feet, of the image rest upon Europe. There is no indication in
any prophecy that the Papacy will remove her seat from Europe: she is pictured as being in Europe until she
comes to her well-merited end, with none to help.
In the prophecy of Daniel, chapter two, the Rock representing Christ, descending from the
Government of God, strikes the feet of the image in the great slaughter of “Armageddon,” when God
strikes at His enemies, and destroys those who are destroying the earth (Revelation 11:18). Thus, in the first
prophecy of Daniel, our attention is not directed to Palestine as the central place of the opponents of true
religion in the final conflict between truth and error, but to EUROPE, for it is THERE that the image is
pictured as standing when Christ comes to destroy His enemies. The fifth plague is definitely poured upon
the throne of the beast-in EUROPE (see Revelation 16: 10).
The prophecy of Daniel 11: 45 does not refer to the Papacy removing the seat of its power to
literal Jerusalem, but it does refer to the final assault by Papal powers against the true church of Jesus
Christ. In making “war” against the remnant church (Revelation 12: 17), the powers comprising modern
Babylon make “war.” against their Maker, Who reigns “in Zion.” See 7 Testimonies, Page 141, 182;
Testimonies to Ministers, Page 465; Great Controversy, Page 623; 656; etc. The destruction of Satan’s
Babylonian forces in the great “Armageddon” slaughter will be “without the city” (Revelation 14: 20; Joel
2: 32 and Joel 3; Zechariah 14, etc.), “in the valley of Jehoshaphat”-the world-wide “Valley of God’s
Judgment.” “Inside Jerusalem” “shall be deliverance as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant whom the
Lord shall call” (Joel 2: 32).

24. THE KING OF THE NORTH PLANTS HIS THRONE
“At that time shall Michael stand up, and at that time thy people shall be delivered” (Daniel 12:1).
When Michael stands up, or commences His reign, probation closes for the human family; the deliverance
of God’s people occurs sometime later at the time of the 6th plague. Thus there are two events to occur at
which time Michael will do something for His people. Twice occurs the expression “at that time,” and in
connection with it the words “thy people” are mentioned twice: hence the two actions of Michael are done
on behalf of His people. Each time the expression “at that time” is used it refers to some action taken by
Christ in opposing the work of the king of the north. “At that time” when “the king of the north,” by the
enforcement of Sunday laws, is preparing to surround and to make “war” on “the holy city,” the church,
“Michael shall stand up, the great Prince which stands for the children of thy people.” “At that time” when
“the king of the north” causes the decree of death to be passed upon Sabbath keepers for their continued
loyalty to God’s Law, “thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book”
(Daniel 11: 45; 12: 1).
There are two events brought to view in connection with the activities of the king of the north: (1)
the king of the north plants the tabernacles of his palace at Jerusalem in readiness for the destruction of
Jerusalem, and (2) his furious onslaught upon “the holy city” which ends in his total destruction. There are
two events brought to view in connection with the activities of Michael on behalf of God’s “people”: (1) He
stands up, or commences His reign, in order to take kingly command to deal with the adversaries of His
“people,” (2) He delivers His “people” and destroys their adversaries. The king of the north comes to his

38

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
end through the standing up of Michael -these are not unrelated events, as the “military interpretation” in
relation to Turkey presents them. It is because His church is placed in a position of dire peril through the
increasing power and fury of the king of the north that Michael stands up. As we have shown in another
place, the Lord Jesus, as the Lord and Deliverer of His people, took an oath that the activities of the king of
the north would be brought to an end (see Daniel 12: 6, 7, 11, 12). This oath is brought to view in the
Revelator’s description of events to transpire under the seventh Trumpet compare Revelation 10: 6, 7 and
11: 15-19. The close of Christ’s heavenly mediation means that no more mercy will be extended to the
enemies of His church. Then will commence the day of vengeance: “For it is the day of the Lord’s
vengeance, and the year of recompence for the controversy of Zion” (Isaiah 34: 8), “and he put on the
garments of vengeance. According to their deeds, accordingly He will repay, fury to His adversaries,
recompence to His enemies” (Isaiah 59: 17, 18).
When Christ commences His reign (following the sounding of the seventh trumpet), it brings great
rejoicing to His persecuted people: “We give thee thanks, 0 Lord God! Almighty, because Thou has taken
Thy great power, and has reigned” (Revelation 11: 17). The seven plagues are definitely termed “her
[Babylon’s] plagues” (Revelation 18: 4, 8). Instead of the king of the north being humbled by the plagues
the Lord pours upon him, he becomes infuriated, and in his deception, blames the saints for his troubles,
and is led to believe that by slaying them his troubles would end. God’s servant says:
“It will be declared that men are offending God by the violation of the Sunday Sabbath, that this
sin has brought calamities which will not cease until Sunday observance shall be strictly enforced, and that
those who present the claims of the fourth commandment, thus destroying reverence for Sunday, are
troubling the people, preventing their restoration to divine favor and temporal prosperity.
“Those who honor the law of God have been accused of bringing judgments upon the world, and
they will be regarded as the-cause of the fearful convulsions of nature, and the strife and bloodshed among
men that are filling the earth with woe.” (Great Controversy, Page 587, 589, 614, 615).
“I saw the sword, famine, pestilence, and great confusion in the land. The wicked thought that we
had brought the judgments upon them, and they rose up and took counsel to rid the earth of us, thinking that
then the evil would be stayed” (Early Writings, Page 33, 34).
Thus will the king of the north lead his forces to destroy “the holy city.” “And it shall come to
pass at the same time when Gog [who conies from “the north parts, see Ezekiel 39:21 shall come against
the land of Israel, said the Lord God, that My fury shall come up in My face. For in My jealousy and in the
fire of My wrath have I spoken.” (Ezekiel 38: 18-23).
CHRONOLOGICAL SEQUENCE
It is a custom of Bible prophets to bring the mind of the reader down to the climax and then to
retrace his steps: in order to present fuller details. In His Second Advent sermon, three times Jesus covers
the course of history down to the end-see Matthew 24:1-14; then v. 15 to 28; then 29 to 51. In John’s
description of events under the seventh trumpet he gives a series of events to occur at that time (see
Revelation 11:15-18), but in v. 19 he goes back to the opening of the heavenly temple in 1844 (see Great
Controversy, Page 433). The events he has enumerated under the seventh trumpet are definitely related to
the Judgment. The ministry of our Lord in the heavenly temple from the time of 1844, commenced the
winding up of earthly things. Thus the Revelator pointed to the climax of all things and then went back to
show how all things depend upon the ministry of Christ in the heavenly temple. Space alone forbids us
pointing out how this principle runs throughout the Bible.
In the study of the prophecies it is advisable to heed the sequence of events, but there will be seen
a looping back in connection with the climax. We see this principle brought to view in Daniel’s last
prophecy, as well as in others that have preceded it. In Daniel 11:14 Rome is introduced into this prophecy,
and immediately the angel points to the climax, saying: “But they shall fall.” Having clearly established
Rome as the king of the north, and having brought into his description of that power the career of the first
three of the Roman Emperors (vs. 17-21), the prophecy proceeds (v. 23) to outline some earlier history of
that great empire which dominated the world at the time when Jesus of Nazareth – “the Prince of the
Covenant” (v. 22)-took up His abode among men.
Bible students do not think it strange for the prophet, as he proceeds with his advance sketch of
history, to break the chronological sequence or continuity of his narrative, and to step back into the past in
order to record other interesting facts connected with the rise of the Roman power. This he does for the
purpose of providing additional points of identification. Numerous instances of this practice will occur to

39

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
the minds of all who are acquainted with sacred or secular literature.
Daniel 11: 22 traces the work of Rome in destroying the Jewish nation, coming in on them like a
“flood” (compare with Daniel 9: 26), but this section of the prophecy closes with a reference to the work of
Rome in breaking also “the Prince of the Covenant”-thus going back from AD 70 to AD 31. These two
events are definitely connected in a climactic sense the Jewish nation being permitted by God to be
destroyed because of their rejection of the Savior.
Daniel 11:40-45 presents the scenes of the wounding of the king of the north, the healing of his
wound, and of his subsequent successful activities as he leads the world in opposition to the people of God.
In v. 45 the prophet proceeds to the climax-the end of this persecuting power. Then in Daniel 12:1 he
connects up the activities of the king of the north in his attacks upon “the holy city”-first, his threatening
attitude, then, secondly, his fury aroused to slay the saints-with what the Lord will do on behalf of His
people in succoring their cause against the king of the north-first, His commencing to reign and to exercise
His Almighty power to plague their enemies, and then, secondly, His intervention to destroy their
adversaries: hence the two sets of events in the prophecy Daniel 11: 45; 12: 1. “At that time” [when the
king of the north masses his forces threateningly around Jerusalem] “shall Michael stand up.” “At that
time” [when the king of the north passes the death decree to slay the saints- to destroy “the holy city”]
Michael delivers His people and destroys the king of the north: “he shall come to his end, and none shall
help him.”
We have come to the climax. Now, in our next chapter, we present details of events leading to that
climax, thus further illustrating the principle we have followed in this chapter.

25. THE PAPACY IS MARSHALLING HIS FORCES
As the church has taken the place of national Israel, she is presented in the prophecies if she were
in Jerusalem. When describing “the final conflict,” the prophets describe the concerted action of Satan’s
kingdom against the remnant church as a gathering of mighty armies to attack “the holy city.” It is this
symbolical presentation of the final conflict which is so erroneously mis-applied literally in relation to a
supposed military gathering of nations in Palestine. God’s servant (who always presents the spiritual
application of the prophecies which have a Palestinian setting), employing language taken from the
prophecies of Joel 3; Ezekiel 38; 39; Daniel 12: 1, speaks of the final conflict, saying: “Satan wished to
have the privilege of destroying the saints of the Most High. But Jesus bade His angels watch over them.
God would be honored by making a covenant with those who had kept His law, in the sight of the heathen
round about [see Joel 3]. Soon I saw the saints suffering great mental anguish. They seemed to be
surrounded by the wicked inhabitants of the earth. God would not suffer His name to be reproached among
the heathen [see Ezekiel 39: 7, etc.]. The time had nearly come when He was to manifest His mighty
power, and gloriously deliver [see Daniel 12:1 and read on in Early Writings, Page] His saints.” Under the
chapter “Deliverance of God’s people,” God’s servant says: “It was at midnight that God chose to deliver
His saints. As the wicked were mocking around them, the saints beheld with solemn joy the tokens of their
deliverance” (Early Writings, Page 282-285).
In these pages, God’s servant couples together, in connection with the assault upon the people of
God for their loyalty to God’s Law, the prophecies of Joel 3; Ezekiel 38; 39; Daniel 12:1, in which is
depicted a combined gathering of armies of evil bent upon the destruction of God’s people within
Jerusalem. Using the language of these prophecies, the Lord’s servant describes the remnant church as
being “surrounded by the wicked inhabitants of the earth,” “the heathen round about, the wicked mocking
around them.” This, of course, is the Scriptural presentation. We shall now proceed to show that the
gathering of the forces of the king of the north is now in progress: the king of the north is already
marshalling his forces to march against “the holy city.”
In the great “war” against the remnant (Revelation 12:17), the Papacy will eventually become
supreme in the world. The Revelator, pointing to the closing scenes declares: “All the world wondered
after the beast” (Revelation 13:3); “all that dwell upon the earth shall worship Him” (v. 8). “These [the
nations of Christendom] have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast. These shall
make war with the Lamb [Who, in Revelation 14:1, is pictured as being with His church upon Mt. Zion],
and the Lamb shall overcome them ... and, they that are with Him [on Mt. Zion] are called, and chosen, and
faithful (Revelation 17: 12-14). Under the figure of a woman, the apostate church will say: “I sit a queen,

40

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, for strong is the
Lord God Who judges her” (Revelation 18: 7, 8).
The king of the north, who is also called the beast in the Revelation, leads Satan’s forces against
the Lamb and His church upon Mt. Zion. The Revelator describes this spiritual conflict in realistic imagery:
“And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against
Him that sat on the horse, and against His army” (Revelation 19:19, 20). He pictures Satan, with his hosts
of evil spirits, working through the dragon (the State), the beast, and the false prophet to gather “the kings
of the earth and of the whole world, to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. And he gathered them
together to a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon” (Revelation 16:13-16). This “war” against
the remnant church (Revelation 12:17; Daniel 11:44) will be waged with the greatest ferocity and power.
“The coming struggle will be marked with a terrible intensity such as the world has never witnessed”
(Great Controversy, Page 10). The forces of Babylon will plan to wipe out completely all those who will
remain loyal to the Law of God. The spirit of hatred and intensity will increase as the Spirit of God, is
withdrawn from the earth. Thus the whole world will “gather” against the Lord and His church on Mt.
Zion. That gathering is now taking place and, at the time of the 6th plague, this gathering will be complete.
This is the teaching of the Bible and of the Spirit of Prophecy.
When God’s people heed the call: “Come out of her [Babylon], My people” (Revelation 18: 4),
they “gather together from the four corners of the earth” (Isaiah 11:11, 12). Commenting upon these verses
in Isaiah which describe the “gathering” of spiritual Israel, God’s servant, in the chapter “The Gathering
Time,” says: “In the gathering time God will heal and bind up His people, in the gathering, when God has
set His hand to gather His people” (Early Writings, Page 74). On page 76 the Lord’s servant strongly
condemns those who look to Palestine for the fulfillment of such promises to Israel. The “gathering” of
Israel in preparation for the day of the Lord, referred to by the Lord’s servant in Early Writings, Page 7476, is explained on p. 86 to refer to the “union” of God’s people, “and to the fact that He had begun to unite
and to raise up His people.” Here, as in other places throughout her writings, God’s servant declares that
the meaning of the word “gather” (mentioned in so many of the last-day prophecies-see Isaiah 54:15; 60:4;
Ezekiel 38:8; 39:27, 28; Joel. 3:2, 11; Zechariah 14:2, 3, 12; Revelation 16:14, 16; 19:19) is “union,”
“unite.” In giving us the meaning of the Greek word “sun” (from whence is derived the word “gather”
employed in Revelation 16: 14, etc.) Dr. Strong says it denotes “union” -which is the same word employed
by God’s servant in explaining the meaning of the expression “gather together” in the prophecy of Isaiah
11:11, 12. It is by this spiritual “union” that believers in the Lord are being “built together for an habitation
of God’ through the Spirit” (Ephesians 2:21, 22).
Not only when referring to the spiritual “gathering together” of Israel does God’s servant employ
the word “union” or “united,” but also when describing the strengthening of the opposing forces. “The
agencies of evil are combining their forces, and consolidating. They are strengthening for the last great
crisis” (9 Testimonies, Page 11). Commenting upon the “gathering” of the tares (see Matthew 13: 30, 40),
God’s servant says: “Can we not see how earnestly Satan is at work binding the tares, in bundles, uniting
the elements of his kingdom, that he may gain control of the world? This work of binding up the tares is
going forward far more rapidly than we imagine” (5 Testimonies, Page 384). “They [men] have united.
They are represented in God’s Word as being bound in bundles to be burned. Satan is uniting his forces for
perdition” (6 Testimonies, Page 242).
In giving an inspired explanation of the “gathering” of .the nations to “Armageddon,” mentioned
in Revelation 16: 14, God’s servant explicitly shows that the word “gather” refers to the spiritual “union” of
the elements of Satan’s kingdom. “The spirits of devils will go forth to the kings of the earth and to the
whole world [obviously the reference is to Revelation 16:13, 14], to fasten them in deception, and urge
them on to unite with Satan in his last struggle against the government of Heaven” (Great Controversy,
Page 623). With such clear and definite statements from the Spirit of Prophecy there should be no question
as to the meaning of the gathering to Armageddon.
“Every soul that is not fully surrendered to God will form an alliance [“unite” or “gather”] with
Satan against heaven and join in battle against the Ruler of the universe” (Testimonies To Ministers, Page
465). By comparing this statement with Weymouth’s Translation of Revelation 16:14, we readily see that
God’s servant is again interpreting the meaning of the “gathering” to Armageddon-a uniting of the forces of
good and evil “against the government of Heaven,” and not a gathering of nations literally to Palestine.
God’s servant often refers to the “uniting” of the forces of evil when describing the final conflict over the
Sabbath-see 5 Testimonies, Page 449; Great Controversy, Page 582, 604, 605, 607, etc. The true
interpretation of the prophetic imagery of the Apocalypse reveals that this teaching is exactly what is

41

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
portrayed in the Revelator’s graphic depiction of the final conflict.
God’s people are urged to study “to understand the progress of events in the marshalling of the
nations for the final conflict of Me great controversy” (8 Testimonies, Page 307). God’s people should
know that “already the inhabitants of the earth are marshalling under the leading of the prince of darkness
The Law of God is made void!” (8 Testimonies, Page 49).
In the “Great Controversy,” pp. 561, 562, we are given the correct interpretation of the work of
evil spirits in “gathering” “the kings of the earth and of the whole world to the battle of that great day of
God Almighty”:
“Satan has long been preparing for his final effort to deceive the world ... He has not yet reached
the full accomplishment of his designs; but it [Satan deceiving the world to join him in his rebellion against
God’s Law] will be reached in the last remnant of time. Says the prophet: “I saw three unclean spirits like
frogs . . . they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of
the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty’ (Revelation 16: 13, 14).
Except those who are kept by the power of God, through faith in His Word, the whole world will be swept
into the ranks of this delusion. The people are fast being lulled into a fatal security, to be awakened only by
the outpouring of the wrath of God.”
Thus we see that the Lord interprets the “gathering” of the nations to Armageddon and “the whole
world” being deceived into joining the “ranks” of the forces of evil; they “unite with Satan in his last
struggle against the government of Heaven.” Satan has been deceiving mankind for a “long” time; he wants
“to deceive the world. He has not yet reached the full accomplishment of his designs; but it will be
reached” by the time of the battle of Armageddon. As by the 6th plague “the whole world” is said to be
“gathered” by miracle-working spirits who have deceived earth’s multitudes, and that is “the full
accomplishment of his designs,” and as that work of deception is said to be the gathering or uniting of “the
kings of the earth and of the whole world,” the “gathering” must already be in progress; “already the
inhabitants of the earth are marshalling under the leading of the prince of darkness.” The “gathering”
pictured in Revelation 16: 13 does not refer to some sudden military maneuver by nations to Megiddo, but
refers to the culmination of the work of deception carried on through the years by Satan as he prepares to
“unite” the world to “join” him “in his last struggle” against God. By the time of the sixth plague “the
wicked have fully united with Satan in his warfare against God” (Great Controversy, Page 656).
The spirits of evil are “already marshalling” the nations to fight “against the government of.
Heaven”-soon those who make “war” against their Maker and His church will come to their end’, and none
shall help them. “Already” in progress is the gathering of God’s people to be with Christ on Mt. Zion. Right
in the midst of the picture of the gathering of the forces of evil against the Lord and His people, the Savior
proclaims a solemn warning to His people to, watch and keep their garments -see Revelation 16: 15. But
the watching and. the keeping of garments apply now-it will be too late after probation closes to get ready.
It is now before probation closes and: while the evil spirits are gathering the nations to make war against
God and His people that God’s people, too, are to make their preparations. They must now heed the call of
Christ to stand “with Him” on Mt. Zion in the garments of righteousness which He provides, and to be
“chosen” before mercy’s door closes, and, by loyalty to His commands, be proved “faithful” (Revelation
14:1; 17:14). Thus when the gates of “the holy city” are shut for ever and no more sinners will be permitted
to enter into it, the saved “they that do His Commandments” (Revelation 22:14)-will be “within
Jerusalem,” whilst the unsaved will be outside “in the valley of God’s Judgment” (Joel 2:32; chap. 3;
Revelation 22: 15; etc.).
During the Dark Ages, the king of the north, the man of sin, the son of perdition, not only planted
the tabernacles of his palace “in the glorious holy mountain” (2 Thessalonians 2: 3-5), but at that time he
also trod “the holy city” under foot for 1260 years (see Revelation 11: 1, 2). Through His loyal servants in
the work of the Reformation, the Lord caused the king of the north to receive “a deadly wound”
(Revelation 13:3), and thus he withdrew from God’s “holy city.” But the beast has revived; the power of
the king of the north returns, and Satan is waiting the day when he will again hurl all his forces against “the
holy city,” the church. In the Dark Ages “it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to
overcome them” (Revelation 13:7). As this “war” was said to be that of treading under foot “the holy city”
(Revelation 11:2), so the “war” against the remnant (Revelation 12:17) in connection with the enforcement
of Sunday laws is also likened to an attack upon “the holy city” (Daniel 11:44, 45). Then, the king of the
north will again plant his tabernacle outside Jerusalem and prepare “to destroy” it “utterly.” But this time
the Lord will not permit the king of the north, the man of sin, to harm His church. Instead, His unmingled
wrath will be poured out upon the assembled hosts who will be gathered “in the valley of Jehoshaphat”

42

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
before His holy habitation: “The Lord shall roar out of Zion, and utter His voice from Jerusalem; and the
heavens and the earth shall shake: but the. Lord will be the hope of His people, and the strength of the
children of Israel [those “in mount Zion and in Jerusalem” will be delivered, Joel 2: 32]. So shall you know
that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there
shall no strangers pass through her any more” (Joel 3: 16, 17).
The persecution of the church during the Dark Ages is declared to be a “war” (Revelation 13:7),
also the treading under foot of “the holy city” (Revelation 11:2), and also the flooding of the river
Euphrates (Revelation 12:15, 16; Joshua 24:2, 4, 14, 15; Isaiah 8:7, 8; etc.). Thus the final phase of the
conflict between the forces of good and evil is again a “war” (Revelation 12:17), an attack upon “the holy
city” (Daniel 11:45; Revelation 14:20; Joel 3; Zechariah 14), and the flooding of the river Euphrates
(Revelation 16:12). In “the battle of that great day of God Almighty” (Revelation 16:14), the Lord makes
“war” (Revelation 19:11-20) upon the multitudes that are gathered against His “holy city”(Daniel 11:45;
12:1; Zechariah 14:2, 3, 12, 13, Revelation 14: 20). He dries up the flooding waters of the Euphrates
(Revelation 16:12; Jeremiah 50:38; Isaiah 44:27; etc.) - the river of Babylon (Revelation 17:1, 15; Jeremiah
51: 13, etc.) which is declared to be “in the north country” (Jeremiah 46:6, 10). Thus the ending of the king
of the north and the drying up of the waters of the Euphrates refer to the same power: the doom of the
forces of Babylon.

26. THE CONTROVERSY BETWEEN CHRIST AND SATAN
When introducing this prophecy, Daniel said: “The thing was true, but the time appointed was
long” (Daniel 10: 1). The margin for “long” is “great.” The original word employed here for “long” is not
the same as that used in Daniel 8: 13; 12: 6. Dr. Strong defines it and its derivatives: “Great (in any sense)
... mighty ... sore ... to twist ... be much set by.” Dr. Moffatt’s Translation reads: “The true revelation of a
great conflict,” The Annotated Paragraph Bible says: “Rather ‘the warfare was great’: see note on Job 7:l.”
Daniel’s last prophecy, therefore, must be read in the light of the spiritual warfare that has ensued down the
ages.
In Daniel 10: 13, 20 Gabriel pulled back the curtain and revealed the part played by the angelic
hosts in this fierce conflict. He said to Daniel: “And now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia.” By
verses 13, 20 we must not understand a literal fight, a literal battle. Throughout his three weeks’ fasting and
praying, Daniel may have felt the loneliness of struggling to forward the cause of Christ. Gabriel’s message
enabled him to see that the angels were co-operating with him in the great spiritual war being waged. The
Lord’s servant says: “The great controversy between good and evil will increase in intensity to the very
close of time” (Great Controversy, Page 9). It was to reveal light upon this mighty drama, this all-important
subject, that Daniel’s last prophecy, particularly, was given.
Both the books of Daniel and Revelation were given to reveal the fierce war between the forces of
good and evil. Everything in them was given with this express purpose in mind. Nothing superfluous or
extraneous is brought into the prophetic outlines. By applying Daniel 11: 36-39 to the French Revolution,
and vs. 40-45; 12: 1 to Turkey and the supposed gathering of nations to Palestine for “Armageddon,” the
vital facts concerning the spiritual conflict are hidden by that which is entirely irrelevant to the express
purpose for which they were given!
Daniel’s last prophecy commences with Satan seeking to hinder the work of God in rebuilding and
restoring Jerusalem after the Babylonian captivity; it also concludes with Satan seeking to destroy the
people of God (Daniel 11:44, 45; 12:1). Only by Michael, the great Prince Who intercedes on Israel’s
behalf, is the work carried forward at the commencement (note Daniel 10:2, 12, 13, 21), and only by His
Almighty power are the people of God delivered from Satan’s effort to destroy them in the final conflict
(Daniel 11: 44, 45; 12: 1).
This last prophecy was given to Daniel after his three weeks’ fasting and praying (Daniel 10: 2).
Daniel was deeply distressed because so few of his people returned to their land of promise, also because
the work of God was meeting with Satanic opposition. Very shortly (about two years) after the expiration of the seventy years’ captivity and the decree of Cyrus authorizing the restoration of Jerusalem, enemies of
the returned exiles “weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and troubled them in building,” even in
sending “hired counselors” to the court of Cyrus. These “hired counselors” worked “against them, to
frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus” and later (Ezra 4: 4, 5). The mighty Gabriel had been sent to

43

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Cyrus (Daniel 10: 13, 19) to influence him to go forward with his work in behalf of restoring the temple at
Jerusalem. But there was a delay of twenty-one days because Satan endeavored to influence Cyrus against
complying with God’s will. During this time Daniel prayed for an understanding of his vision. Finally our
Lord Jesus, referred to here as “Michael,” the first of the princes (Daniel 10, 13, margin), the Head of the
angelic hosts, “the Archangel” (Jude 9)-the angels are said to be “His angels,” Revelation 12:7 came to
help.” Thus this prophecy commences with the difficulties the people of God encountered from Satanic
sources, difficulties so great that our Lord Himself came to the rescue and took personal charge of the
situation. The prophecy also closes with the ‘greater distresses God’s people will surely encounter in the
closing scenes, distresses so great that again the Lord will come to the rescue and take personal charge of
the situation-He will deliver His people from imminent peril (Daniel 12: 1).
Daniel was greatly distressed by the opposition God’s people met with as they returned to
Jerusalem to rebuild God’s temple and city. The Lord gave Daniel this prophecy to describe the far greater
troubles awaiting the people of God down the centuries (Daniel 10:14). The distresses that would come to
the Jewish people through the wars of the Seleucid and Ptolemaic empires would lead to even greater
dangers and perils for the people of God. The Roman power would arise that would eventually break up the
Jewish nation (Daniel 11: 14). But the greatest troubles would come to God’s true people, not from socalled “heathen” sources, but from a power which, while making the high claim of being “the true church,”
would actually be led of Satan to inflict the most fearful sorrows upon God’s people. This power, after the
Dark Ages, through God’s overruling Providence, would be held back for a time while the work of God
would be completed, just as God’s providence enabled Israel to complete the rebuilding of Jerusalem “even
in troubled times” (Daniel 9: 25; see also Ezra and Nehemiah). As the work of God progressed, the
opposition to it became more and more bitter and determined. See Nehemiah 4: 6-8; etc. Thus will it be in
the closing up of the work of God.
More and more the power of God will be poured out to meet Satan’s opposition. Finally, Satan
will stir up the powers of evil-the king of the north and all of his forces-to subdue or destroy the people of
God. But Christ will deliver His people in this final attempt to destroy them. This is a brief summary of
Daniel’s last prophecy: it is concerned wholly with this spiritual conflict. There are no “side-issues” or
irrelevancies, such as Turkish history, brought into the prophecy.
Daniel’s last prophecy is the enlargement of all his earlier prophecies. In His Second Advent
sermon, Jesus enlarged upon the book of Daniel, and with special significance He refers to Daniel’s last
two prophecies concerning the Roman attack upon Jerusalem. In the Revelation, our Lord enlarges upon
His Second Advent sermon. Thus we see the importance of Daniel’s last prophecy (chapters 10 to 12), and
also its relationship to the book of Revelation. Near the conclusion of Daniel’s last prophecy we are
informed of an attack made upon the people of God by the king of the north (Daniel 11: 44; 12: 1). In His
Second Advent sermon, Jesus declares that just before His return the true followers of God will be smitten
by professing Christians (Matthew 24: 48-51). When describing earth’s final scenes the Revelator enlarges
upon the fact that the final peril to the church will come from professing Christian bodies-the beast and the
false prophet (Revelation, chapters 13 to 19). Thus the term “the king of the north” refers to these
professing Christian powers whose opposition to the work and people of God looms so large in the
Revelator’s description of the final conflict between the forces of good and evil.
The importance of Daniel’s last prophecy and its relationship to the book of Revelation will be
recognized by noting that both commence with a “revelation of Jesus Christ” (compare Daniel 10: 5, 6 and
Revelation 1: 14-17). In both, the glory of His person fills Daniel and John with awe and fear. In both,
Jesus comforts His faithful servants with the knowledge that while He possesses Almighty power, His
power is used to show Himself strong on behalf of those whose hearts are perfect towards Him. How fitting
that both Daniel’s last prophecy and the Revelation, which is the enlargement of that prophecy, should
commence with a description of Jesus in His purity and power, and also in His capacity of the High Priest
interceding on behalf of His people. If the display of His power filled His loyal subjects with fear, how will
His adversaries fare when that Almighty power is used on behalf of His persecuted people!
The connection between Daniel’s last prophecy and the book of Revelation is further seen upon
examining the Epanados employed in the first chapter of Revelation. These eight Old Testament texts are
employed in exalting Jesus as the Destroyer of Babylon and the Deliverer of His people. These eight texts
are so arranged that the first text is quoted from the same Old Testament book as the eighth, the second Old
Testament quotation is from the same book as the second to last; the third from the same book as the third
from the last; the central ones the fourth from the first and fourth from the last-are from the same Old
Testament book. The following sets forth this Epanados, employed in Revelation 1 to declare Christ’s

44

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
Lordship:
(1) Revelation 1: 5.
(2)
7.
(3)
7.
(4)
8.
(4)
11.
(3)
12.
(2)
13-15.
(1)
16.

Isaiah 55: 4.
Daniel 7: 13.
Zechariah 12: 10.
Isaiah 41: 4; 44: 6; 48: 12.
Isaiah 41: 4; 44: 6; 48: 12.
Zechariah 4: 2.
Daniel 7: 9, 13, 22; 10: 5, 6.
Isaiah 49: 2.

The first quotation, like the eighth, is from the book of Isaiah. The first text from Isaiah says that
the Messiah would be “a Leader and a Commander to the people.” The eighth-the last---quotation in this
Epanados, in bringing us back to Isaiah (49: 2), shows how the Lord proves Himself to be the “Leader and
Commander to the people”: “Out of His mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword” (Revelation 1:16; Isaiah
49: 2). The destruction of His enemies by the sword of His mouth, referred to in Isaiah 49:2, is again
repeated in Revelation 19:15, 21: “Out of His mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it He should smite the
nations.” In Revelation 19:11-21 the Lord is pictured as coming to wage “war” on the beast-the king of the
north-and the false prophet who have been making “war” upon His remnant people (Revelation 12:17).
In the comforting message given in Isaiah (chaps. 40-48) concerning the overthrow of Babylon,
and the deliverance of His people, Jesus, the Almighty Son of God, repeatedly referred to Himself as “the
first and the last.” See Isaiah 41:4; 43:10; 44:6; 48:12. These are the verses Jesus quotes in the Revelation
when referring to Himself as “the first and the last.” In Isaiah, Jesus thus speaks of Himself when
encouraging His people with the promise that He would overthrow their Babylonian enemies and bring
them deliverance. In the Revelation He again repeatedly refers to Himself as “the first and the last” to
encourage His church that He will overthrow spiritual Babylon and bring about their eternal deliverance
(see Revelation 1:8, 11; 2:8; 21:6; 22:13).
Notice the connection between Isaiah’s prophecy, the Revelation, and Daniel’s last prophecy: they
are each dealing with the overthrow of Babylon; they each draw attention to “the first and the last”; they
each deal with the deliverance of God’s people. In the prophecy of Isaiah, Cyrus is named as the one who
would overthrow Babylon and liberate God’s people. Daniel’s last prophecy commences with Cyrus
(Daniel 10: 1) the destroyer of Babylon and the deliverer of God’s people, it ends (Daniel 12:1) with Jesus
the destroyer of modern Babylon and the Deliverer of God’s people. Thus Daniel’s last prophecy is
connected up with Isaiah’s graphic prophecy of the doom of Babylon in which Jesus is repeatedly said to be
“the first and the last.” Cyrus (the name means the “sun”), the first king in the prophecy, God’s “anointed,”
or “messiah” (see Isaiah 45:1), is a type of the last king in the prophecy-Jesus “the Sun of Righteousness,
the Shepherd King,” God’s “Anointed,” or “Messiah”-who will come to overthrow spiritual Babylon by
drying up her waters (Revelation 16: 12, etc.), and will bring deliverance to His people.
At His second advent, the “Leader and Commander” (Isaiah 55:4; Revelation 1:5) of the forces of
righteousness will overthrow the forces of Babylon at “Armageddon.” This final conflict is enlarged upon
in Revelation 19:11-21. The “sharp sword” (Isaiah 49:2) mentioned in the last of the eight quotations in the
Epanados of Revelation 1 (v. 16), is seen in action (Revelation 19:15) in the slaughter of “Armageddon,”
which results in the complete destruction of spiritual Babylon.
The linen garments worn by our Lord, when seen by Daniel at the time he was given his last
prophecy (Daniel 10: 5, 6), would indicate His priestly work-particularly His High Priestly ministration on
the day of Atonement (see Leviticus 16: 4). In this connection, notice that a part of the description given of
our Lord in Revelation 1 comes from the description given of Him in Daniel 7 in connection with the
Judgment: the Judgment would sit and the Papacy would be destroyed (see Daniel 7:11, 26). As the
commencement of Daniel’s last prophecy the priestly work of Christ is indicated, so the end of that
prophecy brings us to the time when He ceases His mediation in the heavenly temple (Daniel 12:1). The
king of the north gathers his forces (Daniel 11: 44, 45) against the people of God just as the Lord is about to
close His heavenly ministry: “At that time shall Michael stand up, the great Prince [mentioned in the
commencement of the prophecy, see Daniel 10: 13] which stands for the children of thy people” (Daniel
12:1).
That Daniel’s last prophecy deals with the great controversy between Christ and Satan is also
obvious from the fact that this prophecy commences and ends with Jesus being termed “Michael, the first

45

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
of the Princes” (Daniel 10: 13), Who comes to wage war against the machinations of Satan. When the
Revelator describes how the “war” began in heaven with Satan’s machinations against His Father’s
Government, He says: “And there was war in heaven. Michael and His angels fought against the dragon”
(Revelation 12: 7). As Daniel’s last prophecy describes the great conflict between Christ and Satan from
Daniel’s day until the king of the north comes to his end while he is gathered to destroy “the holy city,” the
people of God, so the Revelator also traces the conflict down through the ages from the time Michael
opposed Satan in Heaven until the forces of Satan are destroyed as they surround “the holy city,” “the true
church” (see Great Controversy, Page 266; Revelation 11: 2; 14: 20).

27. DANIEL’S LAST PROPHECY (DANIEL 10:4)
There is a significant reason why Daniel had his last prophecy on the banks of “the great river”
(Daniel 10: 4). It was there that the Lord Jesus revealed Himself to the prophet (vs. 5-9); it was there that
the whole of the prophecy found in chapters 10 to 1.2 was given to him. After outlining the course of events
leading to the final acts of the king of the north, the river is again brought to view in the prophecy. “Then I
Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the one on this side of the bank of the river, and the other
on that side of the bank of the river. And one said to the Man clothed in linen [our Lord Jesus], which was
upon the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders? And I heard the Man clothed
in linen, which was upon the waters of the river, when He held up His right hand and His left hand unto
heaven, and swore by Him that lives for ever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half. When he [the king
of the north is the antecedent of the pronoun “he”] shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy
people, all these things shall be finished” (Daniel 12: 5-7). Thus we see that “the great river” is not only
mentioned at the commencement of this prophecy but is also brought in toward its close, where, for
emphasis, it is mentioned four times, when dealing with the king of the north coming to his end.
Notice the connection between the Lord standing upon the waters of “the great river” when taking
the oath to comfort His church concerning the time limit of Papal supremacy (Daniel 12:5-7)-thus the
conquests of the king of the north are all under Christ’s supervision and control. The prophecy declares
‘that the king of the north “shall sweep through many lands like an overwhelming flood” (Daniel 11:40,
The American Translation). Though the king of the north with all his hordes shall sweep through “many
countries” and, entering “also into the glorious land” of Israel, will threaten to engulf Jerusalem with his
gigantic tidal wave, the. Lord will control that flood: in the final conflict, He will deliver His people from
seemingly imminent death.
The picture of a mighty angel on either side of the river and with the Omnipotent Lord standing
upon the rushing waters surely indicates that they are under Heavenly cognizance and control. Waters
signify people (Revelation 17: 15), and His standing upon the waters denotes His dominion over all. “The
Lord sits upon the flood; yea, the Lord sits King for ever” (Psalm 29: 10).
The significance of the emphasis (four times repeated) in the ending of this prophecy of the Lord
standing upon this river has a wonderful message of comfort for the people of God. This prophecy was
given to outline the conflicts and perils of the church until the end of time. In the dark mysteries of God’s
providence, He permits His church to suffer at the hands of His enemies. But His hand is over their
activities. He permits only that which will purify His people. Thus the significance of the statement: “Many
shall be purified, and made white and tried” (Daniel 12: 10) given in answer to the questions concerning the
length of time the king of the north would, be permitted to continue his persecutions of the church (see vs.
6, 8). Often in their troubles God’s people have cried “How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?”
(Daniel 12: 6; 8: 13; Psalm 74: 10; Zechariah 1: 12; Revelation 6: 10). In this prophecy, the Lord points to
the time when all persecution shall cease; when the king of the north, the chief persecutor of His people,
will come to his end by the intervention of the Lord of the church.
In the days of our Lord’s earthly pilgrimage, the disciples had a trying experience on the sea of
Galilee. Their little “ship” was “tossed with waves: for the winds were contrary” (Matthew 14:22-27). It
was then that Jesus came to them “walking on the sea” and revealed Himself as the Master of the raging
waters and the Helper of His troubled disciples (vs. 27-33). The oath Jesus took (Daniel 12:7) was to
encourage His people (just as the oath God gave anciently was for “the heirs of promise,” Hebrews 6:1320).
In Daniel 12: 7 our Lord is said to take an oath with feet on the waters of the great river and both

46

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
hands toward heaven. It is to this oath that the Revelator refers in Revelation 10: 5-7. In both these
prophecies, the Lord solemnly promises His church that they shall not much longer be obliged to suffer for
His sake. The persecutors will be destroyed, and the saints will triumph eternally. The oath contains this
solemn promise: “that there should be time no longer” or, as given in Dr. Moffatt’s Translation: “There
shall be no more delay” (Revelation 10: 6). Though God has seemingly delayed His judgments upon the
world, He promises that the time will come when there “shall be no more delay.” No longer will He
withhold His hand of vengeance against the persecutors of His people.
By comparing Revelation 10: 5-7 with Revelation 11: 15 we learn that the oath “there shall be no
more delay” has reference to the time when the Lord ceases His mediatorial work and commences His
reign as earth’s rightful King. Revelation 10: 7 reads: “That in the days of the voice of the seventh angel ...
the mystery of God should be finished.” Revelation 11: 15 RV reads: “And the seventh angel sounded ...
the kingdom of the world is become the kingdom of our Lord.” Then, the sovereignty over the world will
be our Lord’s. Then, “He shall show Who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of
lords” (1 Timothy 6: 15, see also Revelation 17: 14; 19: 16). When Michael stands up to avenge His people,
then the king of the north comes to his end (Daniel 11: 45; 12: 1).
Anciently, the Lord “willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability
of His counsel, confirmed it by an oath” (Hebrews 6: 17). The oath given in Daniel’s last prophecy and
repeated in the Revelation is God’s message of blessed assurance that He will not long delay His
intervention on their behalf. And in Daniel’s last prophecy the Lord reveals the events which will lead up to
the final conflict. He warns His people of the final persecution at the hands of the king of the north, but His
assurance is that He stands upon the waters of the great river, which typify the persecuting power of the
king of the north. He controls the flood and when He so desires He will dry up the waters of Babylon’s
“great river” (Revelation 16: 12). As Cyrus, who is mentioned at the commencement of this prophecy
(Daniel 10: 1), dried up the waters of the Euphrates as part of his strategy in the overthrow of Babylon, so
Jesus will also dry up the waters of the great- river Euphrates as part of His plan for the overthrow of
spiritual Babylon.

28. THE KING OF THE NORTH COMES TO HIS END
The river Euphrates is termed “great” five times in the Bible (see Genesis 15: 18; Deuteronomy
1:7; Joshua 1: 4; Revelation 9: 14; 16: 12). The Hiddekel, or Tigris, is never thus designated in the
Scriptures. . The “Pocket Commentary” says: “Hiddekel, the river Tigris, a branch of the Euphrates.” In his
comments on Daniel 10: 4, Uriah Smith says: “By the river Hiddekel the Syriac understands the Euphrates;
the Vulgate, Greek, and Arabic, the Tigris. Hence Wintle concludes that the prophet had this vision at the
place where these rivers unite, as they do not far from the Persian Gulf.” “Thoughts on Daniel and
Revelation,” p. 220.
The connection between the region of the river Euphrates and the king of the north is apparent
when observing that the Scriptures speak of “the north country by the river Euphrates” (Jeremiah 46: 2, 6,
10). The Babylonians came from the north (Jeremiah 1: 13-15; 4: 6; 6: 1; 25: 9, 26; 46: 20, 24) they flooded
the land of Israel like the overflowing of the waters of the Euphrates (Isaiah 8: 7-8; see also Isaiah 28: 2;
Jeremiah 47: 2, etc.)
The river Euphrates is employed in Scripture as the symbol to represent invading, destroying
forces. This is how it is employed in both Revelation 9 and 16. In Revelation 9 the Euphrates is employed
to represent invading, destroying forces-the Ottoman Empire that invaded, and destroyed the remnants of
the Roman Empire. In the prophecy, the emphasis is upon the work of destruction wrought by the Ottoman
empire. Observe carefully Revelation 9: 5, 10, 11, margin, 15, 18.
The Euphrates in Revelation 16: 12 is employed to symbolize invading, destroying forces-the
persecuting power of spiritual Babylon. In Joshua 24: 2, 3, 14, 15, the Euphrates is termed “the flood.” In
Revelation 12: 15, 16 “the flood” (that is, the Euphrates) refers to the persecution of the church during the
Dark Ages. As that persecution is also called a “war” (Revelation 13: 7; Daniel 7: 21), we know that the
Revelator’s statement that the dragon will make “war” on the remnant (Revelation 12: 17) means that the
Euphratean flood of persecution in the Dark Ages is to be repeated in the final conflict, and the drying up of
the Euphrates has reference to the cessation of the Babylonian persecution of the church by the intervention
of God. “Babylon, the great whore,” is definitely described as one “that sits upon many waters” (Revelation

47

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
17: 1). As the margin indicates, this is a quotation from Jeremiah 51: 13, which refers to literal Babylon
“that dwells upon many waters.” Babylon was built upon the Euphrates. As the Revelator had already made
use of the “flood” when referring to the persecution at the hands of spiritual Babylonians in the Dark Ages
(Revelation 12: 15, 16) and as, in Revelation 17, he has described spiritual Babylon as being built upon the
Euphrates, his mention of the Euphrates in Revelation 16: 12 could have reference only to the drying up of
the Babylonian waters of persecution by God’s intervention.
The invasion of the land of Israel and the attack upon the people of God are likened to the flooding
of the land of Israel by the waters of the Euphrates (see Jeremiah 46: 6-10; 47: 2; 25: 9-11, 15-26). In Isaiah
8:7, 8; 7:20 the flooding of the Euphrates referred to the Assyrians coming to destroy Israel in Jerusalem.
At that time the attacking hosts of the Assyrians were destroyed by the miraculous intervention of Israel’s
Almighty God (see Isaiah 37:33-38, etc.). In the last days, we are assured by the prophecy of Revelation
16:12 and Daniel 11:45, God will again intervene to save His people and destroy their enemies. This
message of comfort sent by our Lord through His prophets, Satan seeks to hide, knowing that, with such
strong promises of victory over their enemies, the church will valiantly face the foe, full of assurance in
ultimate triumph.
The doom of Babylon, which was brought about by the strategy of Cyrus drying up the river
Euphrates, looms large in the book of Revelation. This is the culmination of the Revelator’s depiction of
the conflict of the forces of good and evil, just as the ending of the king of the north is the culminating
feature of the prophecies of Daniel-both refer to the same thing. As the Revelator has already made
reference in Revelation 14:8 to the overthrow of Babylon by Cyrus’s strategy, so his reference in
Revelation 16:12 to the coming of “the kings from the east” and the drying up of the waters of the
Euphrates must be understood in the light of his previous reference (14: 8) to the fall of Babylon.
The king of the north meets with great success (Daniel 11: 40-45) until Michael stands up, then the
Lord intervenes and there is a time of trouble such as never was. Similarly in the Revelation, Babylon
becomes exalted among the nations (Revelation 18: 7, etc). But Christ intervenes, the seven last plagues are
poured out: they are God’s judgments upon Babylon-including the sixth! They are “her [Babylon’s]
plagues” (Revelation 18:4, 8). Therefore the symbolic drying up of the Euphrates can refer only to a
judgment upon Babylon, and cannot refer to the extinction of Turkey or nations adjacent to the literal
Euphrates. As Babylon is world-wide, so the Euphrates upon which it was ancientif built must also have a
world-wide application. The plagues, described in Revelation 16, fall upon Babylon when Christ completes
His mediatorial work in the heavenly temple. In Revelation 17 we are shown the reason for the Lord’s
judgments upon Babylon: they come because of her persecution of the people of God.
By comparing Revelation 12: 12-16 with Revelation 13: 5-7 and 12: 17 with 17: 1, 14, 15 we
know that the Revelator describes the coming conflict of the combined forces of Babylon-kings and peopleas the flooding of the Euphrates over its banks, threatening to engulf the people of God in ruin. There will
be a mighty tide of persecution to turn them from their allegiance to the Lord. Revelation 16: 12 refers to
the Lord’s intervention on behalf of His persecuted people. In their evil work of making “war” on “the
remnant” church, the “kings” (mentioned in Revelation 17: 13 as giving “their power and strength unto the
beast”) make “war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them” (v. 14). That is, became they make
“War” on His people, “the lamb” will make “war” against the forces of Babylon (Revelation 19: 11-21):
this is referred to in Revelation 16: 12-16 as “the battle of that great day of God Almighty ... Armageddon.”
Describing the coming destruction of the Jewish nation and of Jerusalem by the Romans, the
prophet Daniel said: “the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; and,
the end thereof shall be with a flood” (Daniel 9: 26). It is to this “flood” that the prophet again refers in
Daniel 11: 22. The Jewish nation with their beloved city, without the covering wing of God, went down
under that Roman Mood.” However, in the closing scenes of the great controversy, God’s spiritual
Jerusalem, “the true church,” will be protected from the invading “flood” of the king of the north and his
“multitudes.”
Pointing to the final conflict, the prophet Daniel directs our attention to the resurrected power of
the king of the north who, recovering from the deadly wound inflicted on him by the king of the south in
the French Revolution, goes “forth with great fury to destroy, and utterly to make away many” (Daniel
11:44).
Daniel likens the campaigns of the king of the north to that of the overflowing of a mighty riverthe Euphrates (Daniel 11: 40, American Translation): “The king of the north ... shall sweep through many
lands like an overwhelming flood.” That “flood” will again surge “into the glorious land” (v. 41) -where
God’s people dwell-and, as in the time of the Assyrians, “the waters of the river [the Euphrates] strong and

48

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
many . . . shall pass through Judah ... even to the neck” (Isaiah 8: 7, 8). As a man nearly drowned by the
inundating flood, with his head only above the swirling waters- so the city of Jerusalem, in the days of
Hezekiah, seemed at the mercy of the invaders. But God intervened. The flooding waters were dried up.
Thus shall it be when the king of the north floods into the anti typical land of Israel and reaches to “the
glorious holy mountain.”
The waters of the Babylonian “flood”-the waters of the great river Euphrates-will flood the land
and threaten to engulf “the holy city” (Daniel 11: 45; Revelation 11: 2). But the Lord Who gave Daniel this
prophecy “by the side of the great river.” That Lord Who stood “upon the waters of the river” when He
made the solemn oath that He would end the persecution of His people (Daniel 12:5-7), will dry up the
waters of “the great river Euphrates” (Revelation 16: 12). The king of the north “shall come to his end, and
none shall help him” (Daniel 11: 45).

29. CHRIST AND ARMEGEDDON
By a solemn oath (Daniel 12:7; Revelation 10:5-7), our Lord assures His people that the king of
the north will come to his end: that his political and spiritual power to persecute will come to an end, and
that he will meet his doom in the last days. This oath, given in the prophecy pointing to the doom of the
king of the, north (Daniel 12:7), and mentioned in Revelation 10:5-7 in connection with the rise and
completion of God’s last-day Message calling spiritual Israel out of spiritual Babylon to the land of Israel,
connects up with the oath God made to Abraham, that his seed would inherit the land-see Genesis 15: 7-18;
Jeremiah 34:18; Genesis 12:1-7; Acts 7:1-5; etc. “If you be Christ’s, then are you Abraham’s seed, and
heirs according to, the promise” (Galatians 3:29). Since 1844 spiritual Israelites have been heeding the call
of Christ to “come out” of spiritual Babylon (Revelation 18: 4), and they have been spiritually gathering to
the land of Israel.
In its spiritual application, the land of Israel means the place where God’s blessings are fully
bestowed. “The Lord shall greatly bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God gives thee for an
inheritance to possess it.” (Deuteronomy 15: 4). To spiritual Israel is given the promise: “Now will I have
mercy upon the whole home of Israel. When I have brought them again from the people, and gathered them
out of their enemies’ lands. Then shall they know I have gathered them unto their own land, and have left
none of them any more there” (Ezekiel 39:25-29). When “the whole house of Israel” shall have “come out”
of spiritual Babylon to the spiritual land of Israel, Satan will stir up the hatred of all people of all nations to
unite, or “gather together,” against God’s people-see Ezekiel 38; 39; Joel. 3; Zechariah 12; 14; Revelation
16: 12-16; 17: 12-14; 19: 11-21; Isaiah 54: 15; etc. This mighty assault upon the people of God is pictured
in the prophecy of Ezekiel 38 and 39. In Revelation 20: 8, 9 we are given the Lord’s interpretation of this
prophecy: it portrays a vast gathering of those who are led by Satan in his warfare against the city and
people of God.
To interpret this grand prophecy in relation to, a military battle between nations to be fought in
Palestine as “Armageddon” is to present a counterfeit of the Lord’s presentation of the great conflict
between Christ and Satan. This assault is made upon Israel because the Lord is “in the midst of My people
Israel” (Ezekiel 39: 7). Before and after the millennium this graphic portrayal applies to the spiritual
conflict-details of application the writer has enlarged upon in other publications. This mighty army
attacking Israel under the leadership of Gog -Satan working through the Papacy and her confederates is said
to “come up [the mountains of Israel] from the north -arts,” or from “the sides of the north” (Ezekiel 39: 2,
margin). The king of the north comes to slay the people of God-with him are all the people of “the whole
world” (Revelation 16: 12-16), but they are being thus led to their doom, for it will be “the battle of that
great day of God Almighty.”
After literal Israel came out of Babylon, and the “work of restoration had begun, and a remnant of
Israel had already returned to Judea, Satan was determined to frustrate the carrying out of the divine
purpose, and to this end he was seeking to move upon the heathen nations to destroy them utterly”
(Prophets And Kings, Page 583). “As he influenced the heathen nations to destroy Israel, so in the near
future he will stir up the wicked powers of earth to destroy the people of God.” (Prophets And Kings, Page
587, 588). After the people of God had been called out of Babylon to “the land of Israel,” Satan sought to
persuade their enemies “to destroy them utterly.” “As he influenced” then, “so in the near future” he will do
the same. Then, Satan sought “to destroy them utterly.” “In the near future” Satan will seek to destroy

49

www.maranathamedia.com.au

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
God’s people “utterly.” This, of course, is precisely what is mentioned in Daniel’s last prophecy regarding
the king of the north: “he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, and utterly to make away many” (Daniel
11: 44).
“In the latter years” (Ezekiel 38: 8), Gog and his armies come “from the north parts” (Ezekiel
39:2) to destroy the people of God. In the last days, the king of the north comes to destroy the people of
God. That Gog and his armies refer to the same as the armies of the king of the north is obvious from the
fact that both come from the north; both come in the last days; both come to destroy the people of God.
Both are destroyed by the God of Israel. Now the Lord has definitely told us that Gog’s armies are the
wicked who are led by Satan to war against “the holy city” and the people of God (Revelation 11:2; 14:20;
20: 8, 9; etc.), so the same power who is referred to in Daniel 11 as the king of the north and who comes to
attack the people and city of God, must also be the wicked who are led by Satan. In “The Certainty of the
Third Angel’s Message,” the writer has demonstrated fully the Bible principle of interpretation: before the
millennium, the gathering of the forces of evil against “the ‘holy city” is a spiritual representation (as if the
church, being “the Israel of God,” were in “the land of Israel”) ; after the millennium, the gathering of the
forces of evil against “the holy city” refers to a literal gathering against the literal “Holy city.”
The king of the north is antichrist, “that man of sin, the son of perdition; who opposes and exalts
himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sits in the temple of God
showing himself that he is God.” He makes a profession of representing Christ, but actually is against Him.
He works “with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in
them that perish” (2 Thessalonians 2: 3-10).
In this power are worked out the principles of the proud Lucifer who, while professing to be
prompted by noble motives, sought to exalt himself to the place of Deity: “in the sides of the north” (Isaiah
14: 12-14, compare with Psalm 48: 1, 2). Gog and his armies come “from the north parts,” from “the sides
of the north.” (Ezekiel 39: 2, margin). Gog assumes to be in the place of the Deity. Daniel declares that the
king of the north “shall do according to his will; and shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every
god.” This is the verse Paul quotes in 2 Thessalonians 2: 3-7 when describing the Papal apostasy. In
Daniel’s last prophecy three powers are said to “do according to his will.” The first (Daniel 11:3) was
Alexander the Great who, after he had conquered Asia, encouraged the worship of himself as a god. The
second (Daniel 11:16) refers to Rome under the Caesars who enforced Emperor worship. The third (Daniel
11: 36) refers to the Papacy which exalts the Pope as a god and inculcates reverence for Mary. In this
connection, observe carefully the following extract from the pen of God’s servant commenting on “ . . . the
‘man of sin’ foretold in prophecy as opposing and exalting himself above God. That gigantic system of
false religion is a masterpiece of Satan’s power-a monument of his efforts to seat himself upon the throne to
rule the earth according to his will ... Satan worked according to his will” (Great Controversy, Page 50, 51).
The name “Gog” means “covered,” alluding to the deceitful character of him who bears this name.
“Gog” is a fitting name for that false system of worship, which, under the guise of Christian nomenclature,
continues, in the professedly Christian church, the old Babylonian mysteries associated with sun worship. It
is a deceitful form of worship, for it counterfeits the true: it “covers” “the truth in unrighteousness,” and
“Changes the truth of God into a lie” (Romans 1: 18, 25). Spiritual Babylon of the Revelation is the rival of
Jerusalem, the spiritual home of God’s people. The Lord calls His people to come out of Babylon to
Jerusalem, the city of truth and peace (Revelation 18:4; Zechariah 8:3). Though the head of that false
system professes to be “the vicar of the Son of God,” the Scriptures define him as “that man of sin ... so that
he as God sits in the temple of God [the professing Christian church], showing himself that he is God.”
Verses 6 and 8 of 2 Thessalonians 2 show that “Gog,” the “covered” one, would be “revealed”; “then shall
that wicked one be revealed.”
How true are the footnotes in Brown’s Bible concerning the prophecy of Ezekiel 38; 39: ‘Gog and
Magog,’ both signifying ‘covered, concealed,’ which, read in the light of 2 Thessalonians 2: 3, 6, 8, where
‘that man of sin,’ ‘that wicked,’ is yet to be revealed -to be uncovered, as it were-and deprived forever of
the mask of hypocrisy, that assumption of Christianity behind which is concealed his idolatry-his
paganism.”
“Magog” meaning “expansion, increase of family,” refers to the world-wide extension of Satan’s
false system of worship, which has “cast down the truth to the ground; and it [has] practiced and prospered”
(Daniel 8: 12, 24, 25). Error will so prosper that “all that dwell upon the earth [except the remnant church,
Revelation 12: 17, etc. “shall worship the beast” (Revelation 13: 8). In the prophecy of Ezekiel 38; 39,
Gog’s great army coming “from the north parts” represents the vast numbers of the unsaved. See Ezekiel
39: 12-16 and compare with Revelation 20: 8, 9. In Daniel’s last prophecy, referring again to the forces of

50

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
evil making war against the people and city of God, attention is drawn to the great success attending the
activities of the king of the north (Daniel 11: 40-43).
The king of the north has not, yet come to his end. The Lord warns His people by the prophecy of
Daniel 11: 40-45 and also by Revelation 13 to 19, that the Papacy will have a resurrection to power-all the
political and spiritual power it has employed in the past, it will again employ in the final conflict. “The
great controversy between good and evil will increase in intensity to the very close of time. All the depths
of Satanic skill and subtlety acquired, all the cruelty developed during the struggle of the ages, will be
brought to bear against God’s people in the final conflict. The coming struggle will be marked with a
terrible intensity such as the world has never witnessed” (Great Controversy, Page 9, 10).
For a brief “hour” (Revelation 17: 12), the king of the north, Gog “from the north parts,” that man
of sin, the son of perdition, the little horn, the beast, will wage a bitter “war” against the people of God
(Revelation 12: 17; Daniel 11: 40-45). He will seem certain of his goal - the entire destruction of God’s
“holy city,” Jerusalem: “He shall plant the tabernacles of his palace between the seas in the glorious holy
mountain [he will surround’ the church as the Romans surrounded literal Jerusalem to destroy it]. Yet he
shall come to his end, and none shall help him”-no one will be able to help him, for He Who brings him to
his end is no other than our Lord Jesus, “the great Prince which stands for the children” of God, the
Almighty Head and Deliverer of His blood-bought people.

30. THE PAPACY AS THE KING OF THE NORTH
Those who hold the view that the king of the north refers to Turkey are puzzled to know why the
time periods relating to the Papacy mentioned in Daniel 12 follow the description of the ending of the king
of the, north. Uriah Smith asks concerning the 1260 days of Papal supremacy mentioned in Daniel 12:6:
“Why is this period here introduced? Probably. To whom does the pronoun he refer?” Daniel and
Revelation, p. 316.
Well might these questions be asked for surely there would be no connection between the doom of
Turkey (in supposed fulfillment of Daniel 11: 45) and the 1260 years of Papal supremacy! Obviously, these
time periods of Daniel 12 have a definite bearing upon the ending of the king of the north brought into the
prophecy just before these time periods are mentioned. The pronoun “he” in Daniel 12: 7 undoubtedly
refers back to the king of the north who, is designated in the previous verses by the pronouns “he”
(mentioned 15 times), “his” (nine times), “himself” (twice) and “him” (twice).
Daniel 11: 31-35 refer to the persecution of the church during the Dark Ages. Daniel 11: 40-45
refer to the gathering of the forces of the Papacy for its final assault on the people of God. Hence the
connection between the previous verses and the introduction of the time 1260 years of Papal supremacy in
Daniel 12: 7. Later in Daniel 12 other time periods are given relating to the Advent Movement which
would prepare people to stand true to God in the final conflict, when the king of the north “shall go forth
with great fury to destroy, and utterly to make away many” (Daniel 11: 44). Concerning the original word
for the expression “utterly to make away,” Dr. Strong says: “The whole (specifically a sacrifice entirely
consumed) whole burnt offering (sacrifice).” Newton says: “The original word we translate ‘utterly to make
away,’ signifies to anathematize, to consecrate, to devote to utter perdition, so that it strongly implies that
this war should be made upon a religious account.” Thus the prophecy points forward to the time when the
restored and revived Papacy will “go forth with great fury to destroy and utterly make away many” of
God’s children, but the promise is that “at that time thy people shall be delivered.”
One of the angels standing on the bank of the great river asks Michael the great High Priest, Who
stands upon the rushing waters dressed in His priestly robes (“clothed in linen,” Daniel 12:6; Leviticus,
16:4, etc.) : “How long shall it be to, the end of these wonders” (Daniel 12:5-7). This question is repeated
by Daniel (v. 8). “How long” will God permit the Papacy-the king of the north-to invade “the glorious
land” and to attack “the holy city”? “How long” before the Papacy comes to his end? The time periods of
Daniel 12: 7, 11, 12 answer this repeated question.
Read in the light of Revelation 11: 2 we know that Daniel 12: 7 contains the prophecy that the
king of the north would tread “under foot,” “the holy city” for “forty and two months.” At the end of that
period he would come to the end of his political power-the king of the south would then “push” at “him”
(Daniel 11: 40), and render him powerless for a period. We know from such prophecies as those contained
in Revelation 13 and 17 that the Papacy would receive a “deadly wound” which would render it helpless for

51

u

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
a period, but that afterwards the “deadly wound” would be healed and all the world wonder “after the
beast.” Then, the attack upon “the holy city” would be renewed, and even with greater vigor than before
(Daniel 11: 40-45)-this time “utterly to make away” the despised people of God.
That this is the true interpretation of the climax of Daniel’s last prophecy will be seen by noticing
carefully the following application made by God’s servant of the deliverance of God’s people mentioned in
Daniel 12: 1:
“The wicked rushed upon the saints to slay them [Daniel 11:44]; but angels fought for them. Satan
wished to have the privilege of destroying the saints but Jesus bade His angels watch over them. God would
be honored by making a covenant with those who had kept His law, in the sight of the heathen [this is an
inspired comment on Ezekiel 38:16, 23; 39:7, 23, 28; Joel 3, etc.] round about them [see Joel 3:12]. And
Jesus would be honored by translating, without their seeing death, the faithful, waiting ones who had so
long expected Him. God would not suffer His name to be reproached among the heathen. He would
manifest His mighty power, and gloriously deliver His saints. For His name’s glory He would deliver every
one of those who had patiently waited for Him, and whose names were written in the book [this is a definite
reference to Daniel 12:11]. The people of God who had faithfully warned the world of His coming, would
be delivered.” Early Writings, Page 282-285, chapter “The Time of Trouble.”
The question “How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?” (Daniel 12: 6) shows that
Daniel’s last prophecy concerning the king of the north came to Daniel in response to his prayers for more
light on the previous vision (chapter 8 and 9). In Daniel 8: 13, 14 is recorded a conversation between
Gabriel and our Lord, just as in Daniel 12: 5-7. In Daniel 8: 13, 14 the question is asked by Gabriel, “How
long ... to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot? And He said unto me, Unto two
thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.” The question in Daniel 8 relates to
the work of the Roman desolator; the question asked in Daniel 12: 6 relates to the king of the north who,
also, is the Roman desolator. The question in Daniel 8 is answered by our Lord, saying: “Unto 2,300 days”
then will the Roman desolator’s desolations concerning the sanctuary and the host come to, an end. The
question in Daniel 12 is answered by our Lord, saying: “It shall be for a time, time, and an half; and when
he [the king of the north is the antecedent] shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people,
all these things shall be finished,” or, as given in the Revised Version, “When they have made an end of
breaking in pieces the power of the holy people all these things shall be finished” (Daniel 12: 7). Notice
that this time period would bring us to the time when the king of the north would come to his “end” of
breaking in pieces the power of the holy people.”
In Daniel 11: 14 the Romans are introduced into the prophecy as “the robbers,” or “breakers” (see
Dr. Strong, Bishop Newton, etc.) “of thy people.” Literal Rome, the desolator, becoming the king of the
north by conquering Syria, entered “into the glorious land,” surrounded and destroyed Jerusalem, and broke
in pieces and scattered the literal Jewish nation. Spiritual Rome, becoming the king of the north, in the
Dark Ages, entered “into the glorious land,” surrounded and attacked God’s spiritual “holy city”
(Revelation 11: 2), and broke the power of spiritual Israel. Thus by the term “the breakers,” the prophecy in
Daniel 11 regarding the king of the north is definitely linked with that portion of the same prophecy which
is given regarding the Papacy in Daniel 12: 7.
When the revelator depicts the persecutions of’ the Dark Ages, he quotes from Daniel’s last two
prophecies and pictures the slain saints as asking “How long, 0 Lord, holy and true, does Thou not judge
and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?” (Revelation 6: 10). These martyrs were to “rest yet
for a little season” (v. 11)-then the king of the north would come to his end. The question they are
represented as asking refers, of course, to the last two prophecies of Daniel where the same question is
asked regarding the 2300 days and the 1260 days.
Why are three time periods-1260, 1290, 1335-mentioned in the closing verses of the book of
Daniel (Daniel 12: 7, 11, 12)? Undoubtedly to bring before us the commencements and endings of the
periods in relation to the power of the king of the north the breaker of God’s people. The terminals of these
three periods each point to an ending of the power of the king of the north. The prophecy of Daniel 7
informs us that after the 1260 days of supremacy (Daniel 7: 25) “the Judgment shall sit, and they shall take
away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end” (v. 26). As we have shown elsewhere, the
Lord based His Second Advent sermon upon these, very prophecies of Daniel which we are at present
considering. In Matthew 24:21 is the record of a statement which is in harmony with Daniel 7: 26. He says:
“For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor
ever shall be.” When the 1260 days ended the power of the- king of the north to destroy God’s people (as
he had done in the Dark Ages) came to an “end”; was “finished.” This we have on the oath our Lord made

52

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
in Daniel 12: 7 in response to the question as to “how long” the king of the north would be permitted to
break in pieces the power of the holy people.
The 1260 days commenced in AD 538. The decree of Justinian, issued in AD 533, recognized the
Pope as “head of all the holy churches.” The overwhelming defeat of the Ostrogoths in the siege of Rome,
five years later, was a death-blow to the independence of the Arian power then ruling Italy, and was
therefore a notable date in the development of Papal supremacy. With the period 533-538, then,
commences the 1260 years of Daniel 7:25; 12:7, which would extend to the period of 1793-1798. The year
1793 was the year of the Reign of Terror in the French Revolution, and the year when the Roman Catholic
religion was set aside in France. As a direct result of the revolt against Papal authority in the French
Revolution, the French army, under Berthier, entered Rome, and the Pope was taken prisoner February 10,
1798, dying at Valence, France, the following year. This period, 1793-98, during which this death-stroke
was inflicted upon the Papacy, fittingly and clearly marks the close of the long prophetic period mentioned
in Daniel 7: 25; 12: 7.
The 1290 days are mentioned in Daniel 12:11 because they connect up the time when, as brought
to view in Daniel 11:30, 31, Papal Rome emerged out of the ruins of national Rome and became the
spiritual king of the north. By its false system of mediation-the perversion of the priesthood of Christ-the
Papacy has trampled under foot the truths concerning the sanctuary in heaven and the spiritual temple, the
church, on earth. “The mystery of iniquity” - the counterfeit of “the mystery of Godliness” (1 Timothy
3:16) was “already” working in the days of the apostle Paul. Basing his prophecy upon Daniel’s last
prophecy relating to the king of the north, Paul declared that “the man of sin” would sit “in the temple of
God [that is, the church, see Ephesians 2: 21, 22, etc.], showing himself that he is God.” (2 Thessalonians 2:
3-5). The work of deception continued to blind the eyes of men to Christ’s priestly ministry in the heavenly
sanctuary. Finally, in 503 AD the Satanic errors were expressed by an official decree of an ecclesiastical
council held in Rome, by which it was declared “that the Pope was judge as God’s vicar, and could himself
be judged by no one.”
“The work of Clovis, king of the Franks, who earned for himself the title of ‘eldest son of the
church’ by his campaigns to subdue the kingdoms hostile to the Papacy, contributed much toward putting
into practical effect this claim of the Papacy, which finally resulted in establishing the Pope as the head of
the Roman priesthood which has usurped the priestly work of Christ, and has established another system of
mediation in its place. This work of Clovis came to its climax in the period 503-508, and this period
therefore became the natural one from which to date the 1290 years of Daniel 12:11, which would
accordingly end in the period 1793-1798, at the same time as the 1260 years of Daniel 7:25.” Bible
Readings, Page 229.
Employing the marginal rendering of Daniel 12:11, the text reads: “From the time that the daily
sacrifice shall be taken away to set up the abomination,” etc. That is, from the year AD 508 when by the
victory of Clovis room and opportunity were provided for the establishment of the Papacy, until “the time
of the end,” would be 1290 days (literal years). After presenting evidence from numerous church historians,
the author of “Daniel and Revelation” states: “Thus in AD 508 terminated united resistance to the
development of the Papacy.” - Page 330.
Thus we are given the connection between Daniel 12:11 and Daniel 11:31, for both refer to the
time when men would “take away the daily [ministry of Christ in the heavenly temple, and the knowledge
of the true church, the spiritual temple, on earth], and they shall place the abomination that makes desolate”
the idolatrous Papal priesthood. As literal Rome had destroyed Jerusalem and polluted “the sanctuary of
strength,” so the spiritual Romans attacked God’s “holy city” and polluted the spiritual “sanctuary of
strength.” From Daniel 11: 31 the prophecy is not to be interpreted literally in relation to the literal land of
Israel. As the scene shifts from the literal Jewish nation, temple, and city to the heavenly temple and the
spiritual temple on earth; from the literal Romans to the spiritual Romans, so the rest of the prophecy must
be interpreted accordingly-as it relates to the people of God, and their enemies.
Seventh-day Adventists have no difficulty in following this principle in reference to the
interpretation of Daniel 8 and 9. The prophecy of the 2,300 days commences with God’s people heeding
the call to come out of Babylon to repair the walls of Jerusalem and to restore the temple and its services. It
ends with God’s last-day Message calling His people out of spiritual Babylon to repair the walls of
Jerusalem and to restore the truths concerning the temple and its services. The same principle must be
applied when studying Daniel’s last prophecy which is the enlargement and explanation of the prophecy of
the 2,300 days. The connection between the 2,300 days and Daniel’s last prophecy becomes more obvious
when noting that the last time period-the 1335 days given in the book of Daniel (12: 12) brings us to 1844

53

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
as do the 2,300 days. The 2,300 days commenced with the decree (BC 457) permitting God’s people to
leave Babylon to return to their native land “to restore and to build Jerusalem” (Daniel 9:25). They end
(1844) with the call out of spiritual Babylon “to restore and to build Jerusalem” the spiritual “temple” and
“holy city.” In 1844 the 2,300 days ended: the Investigative Judgment commenced in heaven, and upon the
earth God’s spiritual temple began to be cleansed of the pollution of sin and Babylonian errors. The 1335
days commenced AD 503-508 when spiritual Babylon, having passed a decree making the Pope the head of
their idolatrous priesthood, thus officially commencing an attack upon the spiritual “holy city” and
“temple,” was politically strengthened by the work of Clovis in subduing kingdoms hostile to the Papacy;
they end in 1844 with the call out of spiritual Babylon to “restore and to build Jerusalem”-the spiritual
“temple” and “holy city.” Beginning at the same date as the 1290 days (given in Daniel 12:11 to connect up
with and to explain Daniel 11:31) AD 508, 1335 days (literal years) extend to 1843-4, the time when the
world-wide proclamation was given, “The hour of His Judgment is come” (Revelation 14:6, 7). Light then
burst concerning the ministry of our great High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary above. From then the
Papacy’s deceptions concerning their false, priesthood were more fully revealed. The 1260 and 1290 days,
which both ended in 1798, brought to an end the political supremacy of the king of the north; no longer
would he have power to slay the saints as he had during that long period of persecution. The 2,300 and
1,335 days, or years, which both end in 1844, brought to an end the spiritual power of the king of the north
to deceive people concerning the true priesthood in the heavenly temple and concerning the spiritual temple
on earth.
Further Scriptural support for the position here presented regarding the progressive “end” of the
king of the north may be seen by comparing the following texts:
Daniel 12:7: “He held up His right hand and His left hand unto heaven, and swore by Him that lives for
ever that it shall be for a time, times, and an half. And when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power
of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.”
Revelation 10:54: “Lifted up His hand to heaven and swore by Him that lives for ever and ever that time
should be no longer. And that the mystery should be finished.”
In Daniel 12:7 the word “finished” has reference to the ending of the 1260 days in 1798 when
ended the political power of the Papacy to persecute the saints. In Revelation 10:5-7 the application made
of Daniel 12:7 is that, in 1844, prophetic “time should be no longer,” for that would be the end of the
longest time prophecy in the Bible-the 2,300 days of Daniel 8: 14. But the complete application of Daniel
12:7 is seen in the statement, “The mystery of, God should be finished.” That is, the end of probation when
Christ has “finished” His heavenly ministry. Thus by combining Daniel 12:7 and Revelation 10:5-7 we see
that they refer to the endings of the three prophetic periods brought to view in Daniel’s last prophecy-the
1260 and 1290 days ending in 1798, and the 1335 days ending in 1844. These periods were given to Daniel
in order to clarify matters relating to the ending of the king of the north, which will occur after “the mystery
of God should be finished” and “Michael” will have stood up and commenced His kingly reign (Daniel
11:45; 12:1).
Spiritual- Rome’s power to “scatter” or break “in pieces the power of the holy people” was
“finished” in 1798; her power to deceive true Israelites who accept God’s last-day Message was “finished”
in 1844; after “the mystery of God” is “finished,” then she would be “finished” with entirely.
That the last chapter of Daniel deals with the ending of “the days”- the 1260 “days,” the 1290
“days,” the 2300 “days,” the 1335 “days”-pointing to the ending of the king of the north, is further
indicated by the fact that the book of Daniel closes with the promise that Daniel (and those like him in
character) would stand in his “lot” at the “end of the days” (Daniel 12: 13).
The Hebrew word for “lot” is found 76 times in the Old Testament. Dr. Strong says of this word:
“A portion or destiny (as if determined by lot).” See examples in Leviticus 16: 8, 9, 10; Numbers 26:55; 33:
54; 34: 13; etc. Two main uses of this word are brought to view in the Old Testament: (1) Israel dividing
the land by lot before they entered into the promised, land (see Numbers 26:55; 33:54; 34:13; etc.). (2)
Deciding which of the two goats employed in the service of the Day of Atonement should represent Christ
or Satan. See “Messiah in His Sanctuary,” Page 142, by F. G. Gilbert; “Daniel and Revelation,” Page 317;
“Test. to Ministers,” p. 115; “Prophets and Kings,” Page 547. These authors show that the term is
associated with the last message at the time of the Judgment-the antitypical Day of Atonement-prior to
Israel entering into the everlasting Canaan.

54

THE KING OF THE NORTH AT JERUSALEM
“When Israel was about to enter into the promised land, the lot was cast, and the possession of
each tribe was assigned. The tribes thus stood in their respective ‘lots’ long before they entered the actual
possession of the land. The time of the cleansing of the sanctuary corresponds to this period of Israel’s
history. We now stand upon the borders of the heavenly Canaan, and decisions are being made, assigning to
some a place in the eternal kingdom, and barring others forever therefrom. In the decision of his case,
Daniel’s portion in the celestial inheritance will be made sure to him. And with him all the faithful will also
stand.” – “Daniel and Revelation,” Page 317.
Thus in Daniel 12:13-the last verse in the book-we are again reminded of the principle to be
employed in the study of the book of Daniel-the law of types and antitypes. Though Daniel’s last prophecy
was not written with the same pictorial symbolism as revealed in the other prophecies, yet it can be
understood only when read as if the church has taken the place of national Israel. In Daniel 12:13 the
church is represented, as if she were Israel on the Day of Atonement (when the scapegoat is to be banished
from the camp, and Israel will be freed forever from all her sins) about to enter into the promised land. The
expression “thy people” in Daniel 12:1 refers not to literal but to spiritual Israel. “The glorious holy
mountain” of Daniel 11:45 refers not to the literal city of Jerusalem, but to “the holy city, the true church”
(Great Controversy, Page 266). “The king of the north” does not designate a nation to the north of literal
Jerusalem but to that antitypical power that emanates, spiritually, from the region of Babylon and the
Euphrates “in the north country.” That power that assumes to sit in the place of Deity “in the sides of the
north.”
The prophecy of Daniel 10 to 12 was not given to describe events to occur in Palestine in the last
days, but to describe the experiences of spiritual Israel in all the world-in the antitypical, or spiritual land of
Israel-just before they enter into their eternal Canaan. “At the end of the days” mentioned in Daniel 12, the
king of the north will come to his complete and final end. “At the end of the days” the people of God will
enjoy their celestial inheritance: “at the end of the days” their immortal life begins in the springtime of
eternity.

55

Harvestime Books Resource Library
http://www.remnant-prophecy.com
http://www.Harvestimebooks.com
http://www.bible-sabbath.com

